European stocks rose on Wednesday after debt-laden developer China Evergrande said it would make some interest payments, while investors awaited a signal from the U.S. Federal Reserve on how and when it will rein in its massive stimulus.
(Reuters) -European stocks rose on Wednesday after debt-laden developer China Evergrande said it would make some interest payments, while investors awaited a signal from the U.S. Federal Reserve on how and when it will rein in its massive stimulus.
The German share price index DAX graph is pictured at the stock exchange in Frankfurt, Germany, September 22, 2021. REUTERS/Staff
Evergrande’s Frankfurt-listed shares jumped 41.0% after hitting multi-year lows in the previous session.
The property developer said it would make a coupon payment on its domestic bonds, offering relief to investors worried about payments default following financial troubles.
“It’s been another positive session for European stocks, as concerns about fallout from Evergrande continue to diminish, after this morning’s agreement on some of its domestic bond coupons,” said Michael Hewson, chief market analyst at CMC Markets.
“Despite this little wrinkle, markets appear to be working on the assumption that the problem has been contained, let’s hope they are right.”
The travel & leisure index rose 2.5% hitting a 14-week high, after Entain jumped 5.1% on revealing a $22.4 billion takeover proposal from Boston-based DraftKings.
Online betting group Flutter Entertainment gained 4.0% after it agreed to pay $200 million to the Commonwealth of Kentucky to settle a judgment reinstated last year.
The Europe-wide STOXX 600 index rose 1.0%, extending Tuesday’s bounce after its worst session in two months, with commodity-linked stocks and banks leading gains.
Meanwhile, the Federal Reserve is set to conclude its two-day policy meeting later in the day, with investors expecting it to clear the way for cuts to its monthly asset purchases later this year and update its inflation and growth projections.
“Fed Chair Jerome Powell will most probably be clear on the central bank’s commitment to start lowering bond purchases before year-end but short on details about the pace and the composition of tapering,” Unicredit analysts said in a note.
“An announcement like this would be in line with Powell’s presentation at the central bank symposium in Jackson Hole in late August and is unlikely to surprise investors.”
After seven straight months of gains, sentiment has soured across global equities in September on worries about China’s slowing growth, the fast-spreading Delta variant of COVID-19 and tighter monetary policies.
The STOXX 600 is down 1.6% so far this month and is set for its worst monthly performance in about a year.
Deutsche Post fell 1.5 after U.S. delivery firm FedEx Corp cut its full-year forecast after labour shortages crimped earnings and drove up costs.


European stocks rose on Wednesday after debt-laden developer China Evergrande said it would make some interest payments, while investors awaited a signal from the U.S. Federal Reserve on how and when it will rein in its massive stimulus.
(Reuters) -European stocks rose on Wednesday after debt-laden developer China Evergrande said it would make some interest payments, while investors awaited a signal from the U.S. Federal Reserve on how and when it will rein in its massive stimulus.
The German share price index DAX graph is pictured at the stock exchange in Frankfurt, Germany, September 22, 2021. REUTERS/Staff
Evergrande’s Frankfurt-listed shares jumped 41.0% after hitting multi-year lows in the previous session.
The property developer said it would make a coupon payment on its domestic bonds, offering relief to investors worried about payments default following financial troubles.
“It’s been another positive session for European stocks, as concerns about fallout from Evergrande continue to diminish, after this morning’s agreement on some of its domestic bond coupons,” said Michael Hewson, chief market analyst at CMC Markets.
“Despite this little wrinkle, markets appear to be working on the assumption that the problem has been contained, let’s hope they are right.”
The travel & leisure index rose 2.5% hitting a 14-week high, after Entain jumped 5.1% on revealing a $22.4 billion takeover proposal from Boston-based DraftKings.
Online betting group Flutter Entertainment gained 4.0% after it agreed to pay $200 million to the Commonwealth of Kentucky to settle a judgment reinstated last year.
The Europe-wide STOXX 600 index rose 1.0%, extending Tuesday’s bounce after its worst session in two months, with commodity-linked stocks and banks leading gains.
Meanwhile, the Federal Reserve is set to conclude its two-day policy meeting later in the day, with investors expecting it to clear the way for cuts to its monthly asset purchases later this year and update its inflation and growth projections.
“Fed Chair Jerome Powell will most probably be clear on the central bank’s commitment to start lowering bond purchases before year-end but short on details about the pace and the composition of tapering,” Unicredit analysts said in a note.
“An announcement like this would be in line with Powell’s presentation at the central bank symposium in Jackson Hole in late August and is unlikely to surprise investors.”
After seven straight months of gains, sentiment has soured across global equities in September on worries about China’s slowing growth, the fast-spreading Delta variant of COVID-19 and tighter monetary policies.
The STOXX 600 is down 1.6% so far this month and is set for its worst monthly performance in about a year.
Deutsche Post fell 1.5 after U.S. delivery firm FedEx Corp cut its full-year forecast after labour shortages crimped earnings and drove up costs.


The Federal Reserve isn't ready to take its foot off the stimulus gas pedal just yet, but that soon might change.
(CNN) — The Federal Reserve isn't ready to take its foot off the stimulus gas pedal just yet, but that soon might change.
If the economic recovery continues to progress as expected, the Fed "judges that a moderation in the pace of asset purchases may soon be warranted," according to the bank's policy update published Wednesday.
This raises the prospects of a November announcement that it will step on the brakes. But even if such a move was delayed until December or January, it wouldn't matter much to markets, which have already priced in a policy change, said Seema Shah, chief strategist at Principal Global Investors, in emailed comments.
The Fed could also lift interest rates as early as next year, according to updated projections, as opposed to waiting until 2023 as previous forecasts called for.
Taper time
When the pandemic started to wreak havoc on the US economy in early 2020, the Fed stepped in, slashing interest rates to near-zero and committing to buying $120 billion worth of Treasury and mortgage-backed securities every month. These purchases will be rolled back soon, it seems, in what is referred to as a "taper."
It's the Fed's job to keep prices stable and achieve maximum employment. Over the past months, Powell had said that more progress was needed on those fronts until a change in policies is warranted. But now his tone has changed: While the test for inflation is already met, the test for employment is "all but met," Powell told reporters during Wednesday's press conference.
"For me it would not take a knock-out great [September] employment report," Powell added, even though other members of the policy committee still wanted to see further improvements.
Investors have long expected the Fed to clamp down on its monthly stimulus as the recovery was coming along nicely over the summer. But a disappointing August jobs report pushed those expectations back. Wednesday's announcement was thus in line with what investors predicted and the stock market continued its rally after it was published.
Roadblocks ahead
There are still a few hurdles that the economy, and the market, need to overcome.
In Washington, the debt ceiling debate is heating up as lawmakers try to find a way to keep the government from running out of cash.
"It's just very important that the debt ceiling be raised so that the United States can pay its bills when they come due," Powell said, adding that the damage to the economy and financial markets would be severe if there were a default. Nobody should assume the Fed could fully protect the economy against such a failure, he added.
Meanwhile, the recovery has hit some roadblocks recently as the Delta variant is leading to more infections and affecting people's willingness to be around others.
And as many economists began to factor the Delta effect into their winter forecasts for the economy, so has the Fed. Its projections see lower economic growth for 2021 with gross domestic product rising 5.9%, compared with the 7% it projected in June. The growth rate for 2022, however, was revised upwards to 3.8% from 3.3%.
Similarly, the Fed now expects unemployment to be slightly higher -- at 4.8% -- than previously thought at the end of this year. Similarly, inflation is also will likely be higher by year-end than projected in June, as it's taking longer for bottlenecks and shortages that drive up prices to abate. The personal consumption expenditure index, which is the Fed's preferred measure of inflation, is expected to be at 4.2% for the year rather than 3.4% previously forecast.
Spikes in inflation over the summer fueled the market view that the Fed would soon reign in its easy-money policies sooner rather than later to keep the economy from overheating.
This story was first published on CNN.com, "The Federal Reserve is getting ready to roll back its massive stimulus."


The Federal Reserve isn't ready to take its foot off the stimulus gas pedal just yet, but that soon might change.
(CNN) — The Federal Reserve isn't ready to take its foot off the stimulus gas pedal just yet, but that soon might change.
If the economic recovery continues to progress as expected, the Fed "judges that a moderation in the pace of asset purchases may soon be warranted," according to the bank's policy update published Wednesday.
This raises the prospects of a November announcement that it will step on the brakes. But even if such a move was delayed until December or January, it wouldn't matter much to markets, which have already priced in a policy change, said Seema Shah, chief strategist at Principal Global Investors, in emailed comments.
The Fed could also lift interest rates as early as next year, according to updated projections, as opposed to waiting until 2023 as previous forecasts called for.
Taper time
When the pandemic started to wreak havoc on the US economy in early 2020, the Fed stepped in, slashing interest rates to near-zero and committing to buying $120 billion worth of Treasury and mortgage-backed securities every month. These purchases will be rolled back soon, it seems, in what is referred to as a "taper."
It's the Fed's job to keep prices stable and achieve maximum employment. Over the past months, Powell had said that more progress was needed on those fronts until a change in policies is warranted. But now his tone has changed: While the test for inflation is already met, the test for employment is "all but met," Powell told reporters during Wednesday's press conference.
"For me it would not take a knock-out great [September] employment report," Powell added, even though other members of the policy committee still wanted to see further improvements.
Investors have long expected the Fed to clamp down on its monthly stimulus as the recovery was coming along nicely over the summer. But a disappointing August jobs report pushed those expectations back. Wednesday's announcement was thus in line with what investors predicted and the stock market continued its rally after it was published.
Roadblocks ahead
There are still a few hurdles that the economy, and the market, need to overcome.
In Washington, the debt ceiling debate is heating up as lawmakers try to find a way to keep the government from running out of cash.
"It's just very important that the debt ceiling be raised so that the United States can pay its bills when they come due," Powell said, adding that the damage to the economy and financial markets would be severe if there were a default. Nobody should assume the Fed could fully protect the economy against such a failure, he added.
Meanwhile, the recovery has hit some roadblocks recently as the Delta variant is leading to more infections and affecting people's willingness to be around others.
And as many economists began to factor the Delta effect into their winter forecasts for the economy, so has the Fed. Its projections see lower economic growth for 2021 with gross domestic product rising 5.9%, compared with the 7% it projected in June. The growth rate for 2022, however, was revised upwards to 3.8% from 3.3%.
Similarly, the Fed now expects unemployment to be slightly higher -- at 4.8% -- than previously thought at the end of this year. Similarly, inflation is also will likely be higher by year-end than projected in June, as it's taking longer for bottlenecks and shortages that drive up prices to abate. The personal consumption expenditure index, which is the Fed's preferred measure of inflation, is expected to be at 4.2% for the year rather than 3.4% previously forecast.
Spikes in inflation over the summer fueled the market view that the Fed would soon reign in its easy-money policies sooner rather than later to keep the economy from overheating.
This story was first published on CNN.com, "The Federal Reserve is getting ready to roll back its massive stimulus."


The Federal Reserve is expected to clear the way on Wednesday for reductions to its monthly asset purchases later this year and show in updated projections whether higher-than-expected inflation or a resurgent coronavirus pandemic is weighing more on the economic outlook.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve is expected to clear the way on Wednesday for reductions to its monthly asset purchases later this year and show in updated projections whether higher-than-expected inflation or a resurgent coronavirus pandemic is weighing more on the economic outlook.
FILE PHOTO: Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell testifies during a U.S. House Oversight and Reform Select Subcommittee hearing on the coronavirus crisis, on Capitol Hill in Washington, U.S., June 22, 2021. Graeme Jennings/Pool via REUTERS/File Photo
Fed policymakers, who are wrapping up their latest two-day meeting, have been handed a conflicting set of developments since late July - signs of a slowdown in the service sector, a COVID-19 surge that has eclipsed that of last summer and weak job growth in August, all alongside still strong inflation - and been conflicted among themselves about how to react.
Officials have for the most part said the economic recovery will continue and allow the U.S. central bank to proceed with plans to reduce its $120 billion in monthly purchases of Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities by the end of 2021, and wind them down fully over the first half of next year.
But forecasters and outside analysts expect the Fed to hedge on exactly when the “taper” might begin, and tie it to a rebound in job growth following the disconcertingly tepid report in August, when only 235,000 jobs were created.
The Fed is due to release its latest policy statement and economic projections at 2 p.m. EDT (1800 GMT), with Fed Chair Jerome Powell holding a news conference half an hour later to discuss the outcome.
The statement will likely acknowledge that the economy has taken another step towards the “substantial further progress” the Fed has said it wants to see in the labor market before reducing its bond purchases, Jefferies economists Aneta Markowska and Thomas Simons said in an analysis. While August job growth was disappointing, U.S. nonfarm payrolls swelled by just over 1 million in July and have increased an average 716,000 since May.
Still, high-frequency data and alternate employment indicators have hinted that upcoming jobs gains may disappoint as well, and the Jefferies analysts said the first actual reduction in asset purchases will likely be “conditional on a solid September employment gain.”
The U.S. job market remains about 5.3 million positions short of where it was before the pandemic.
More then 60% of economists who responded to a Reuters poll said they expected the tapering of the bond purchases to begin in December.
Fed officials, however, may decide they need more time to assess the risk from a handful of evolving issues before deciding to push ahead with the reduction in the bond-buying program. Financial markets have been roiled in the last week by concerns about spillover effects from the potential collapse of a large Chinese property developer, China Evergrande Group, and the S&P 500 index kicked off the week with its largest daily loss in four months.
Meanwhile, U.S. lawmakers appear no closer to resolving a partisan standoff in Congress over lifting the federal debt ceiling, with the potential for a partial shutdown of the federal government rising by the day.
INFLATION WATCH
When the bond-buying taper does come, it will mark the start of a shift away from the measures put in place in March 2020 to help the economy through the pandemic, and towards more normal monetary policies that will eventually include higher interest rates.
Powell, who is likely to learn before the Fed’s Nov. 2-3 policy meeting whether President Joe Biden wants to nominate him for a second term as head of the central bank, has emphasized in several high-profile speeches, including at a Kansas City Fed research conference last month, that the eventual start of the bond-buying taper is unrelated to the debate over interest rates. It is a point he is likely to reiterate on Wednesday.
Policymakers’ new economic and interest rate projections, however, will provide some sense of how fast rate hikes may follow the taper, and in particular whether a bout of high inflation has officials penciling in an initial increase for next year.
The Fed’s preferred measure of inflation as of July was about 4.2% on an annualized basis. That is double the central bank’s 2% target and enough in the minds of some officials to meet the central bank’s new promise to let inflation run moderately above that target for a while to be sure it is reached on average, a precursor to raising rates.
Leaning in the other direction: The surge of COVID-19 infections driven by the Delta variant of the coronavirus.
Since June, when the Fed noted the positive impact of COVID-19 vaccinations and said the economy’s performance appeared to be separating from the pandemic, the seven-day average of new daily infections had ballooned five-fold to 66,000 by the central bank’s July 27-28 meeting. It has roughly doubled again since then.
Some measures of service activity have dipped, prompting forecasters to mark down their outlooks for economic growth this year.
The Fed may well follow suit.


U.S. and European stocks churned higher on Wednesday as market jitters around property developer China Evergrande eased, while the dollar index edged lower ahead of a U.S. Federal Reserve meeting.
U.S. and European stocks churned higher on Wednesday as market jitters around property developer China Evergrande eased, while the dollar index edged lower ahead of a U.S. Federal Reserve meeting. MSCI's gauge of stocks across the globe gained 0.62%, bouncing back for a second day after it logged its biggest one-day percentage drop in two months on Monday.
Wall Street's main indexes moved higher in early Wednesday trade following solid gains for markets in Europe. China Evergrande agreed to settle interest payments on a domestic bond, while the Chinese central bank injected cash into the banking system, soothing investors' fears of imminent contagion from the debt-laden property developer that had pressured equities and other riskier assets at the start of the week.
"Right or wrong, people I think are starting to show signs that they think maybe this pullback has reached its worst point," said Randy Frederick, vice president of trading and derivatives for Charles Schwab in Austin, Texas. "It wasn't entirely the Evergrande situation, but it seems like that was one of the biggest pieces of it." On Wall Street, the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 361.36 points, or 1.07%, to 34,281.2, the S&P 500 gained 37.02 points, or 0.85%, to 4,391.21 and the Nasdaq Composite added 88.66 points, or 0.6%, to 14,835.06.
The pan-European STOXX 600 index rose 0.93%, with bank stocks surging. With a number of central banks around the world meeting this week, the Bank of Japan (BOJ) offered a bleaker view on exports and output as Asian factory shutdowns caused supply bottlenecks, but maintained its optimism that robust global growth would keep the economic recovery on track. BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda also brushed aside fears that the debt problems of Evergrande could disrupt the global financial system.
Investors were closely watching the Fed, with the U.S. central bank expected to clear the way on Wednesday for reductions to its monthly asset purchases later this year. The dollar index fell 0.102%, with the euro up 0.16% to $1.1742. The Japanese yen weakened 0.32% versus the greenback at 109.56 per dollar.
Benchmark U.S. 10-year notes last rose 1/32 in price to yield 1.3209%, from 1.324% late on Tuesday. Oil prices climbed after industry data showed U.S. crude stocks fell more than expected last week after two hurricanes, highlighting tight supply as demand improves.
U.S. crude rose 1.93% to $71.85 per barrel and Brent was at $75.77, up 1.9% on the day. Spot gold dropped 0.1% to $1,773.31 an ounce, after three sessions of gains.
(This story has not been edited by Devdiscourse staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)


The U.S. dollar slipped ahead of a policy announcement by the Federal Reserve on Wednesday, while risk-sensitive currencies such as the Australian dollar and Chinese yuan strengthened after China's Evergrande said it would make a bond coupon payment.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - The U.S. dollar slipped ahead of a policy announcement by the Federal Reserve on Wednesday, while risk-sensitive currencies such as the Australian dollar and Chinese yuan strengthened after China’s Evergrande said it would make a bond coupon payment.
FILE PHOTO: An Australia dollar note is seen in this illustration photo June 1, 2017. REUTERS/Thomas White/Illustration/File Photo
Property giant and Asia’s biggest junk bond issuer Evergrande said it “resolved” one payment due on Thursday via a private negotiation, easing concerns of default and possible contagion risk, while the People’s Bank of China injected 90 billion yuan into the banking system to support markets.
“Being able to make tomorrow’s bond coupon payment, that definitely lifted risk sentiment overnight and you saw a typical follow-through reaction in risk currencies, so Canadian dollar high, Aussie dollar higher, Kiwi dollar higher - that was kind of an understandable reaction,” said Erik Bregar, an independent FX analyst in Toronto.
Still, uncertainty remains whether the developer will be able to pay the coupon on its offshore dollar bonds, due on Thursday.
The Australian dollar rose 0.28% versus the greenback at $0.725 after rising as much as 0.49% to $0.7268 while the Canadian dollar rose 0.38% versus the greenback at 1.28 per dollar.
The offshore Chinese yuan strengthened versus the greenback at 6.4628 per dollar.
All eyes will be on the Fed later in the session for its policy announcement for signs of when the U.S. central bank plans to begin trimming its monthly asset purchases as well as any insight into the timing of a possible rate hike.
“There is definitely a more clear consensus going into this meeting, vis-a-vis the previous one, people are looking for a more clear timeline on taper, we have all heard these expectations about a signal to start in November then the actual pace of purchase start declining in September, you could argue expectations are a tad hawkish coming in,” Bregar said.
The dollar index fell 0.07%, with the euro up 0.09% to $1.1734.
The safe-haven Japanese yen weakened 0.27% versus the greenback at 109.51 per dollar in the wake of the Bank of Japan’s decision to keep policy on hold.
Sterling was last trading at $1.3643, down 0.12% on the day ahead of a policy announcement by the Bank of England on Thursday, with expectations for a rate hike being pushed down the road by investors.
In cryptocurrencies, Bitcoin last rose 4.58% to $42,457.03 following three straight days of declines.
========================================================
Currency bid prices at 10:33AM (1433 GMT)
Description RIC Last U.S. Close Pct Change YTD Pct High Bid Low Bid
Previous Change
Session
Dollar index
93.1420 93.2220 -0.07% 3.513% +93.2910 +93.1130
Euro/Dollar
$1.1736 $1.1726 +0.09% -3.94% +$1.1744 +$1.1717
Dollar/Yen
109.5150 109.2200 +0.27% +6.00% +109.6150 +109.1200
Euro/Yen
128.53 128.06 +0.37% +1.27% +128.6900 +127.9400
Dollar/Swiss
0.9217 0.9236 -0.18% +4.20% +0.9250 +0.9217
Sterling/Dollar
$1.3644 $1.3661 -0.15% -0.15% +$1.3678 +$1.3617
Dollar/Canadian
1.2766 1.2812 -0.34% +0.27% +1.2826 +1.2764
Aussie/Dollar
$0.7252 $0.7233 +0.26% -5.73% +$0.7268 +$0.7225
Euro/Swiss
1.0816 1.0829 -0.12% +0.08% +1.0844 +1.0814
Euro/Sterling
0.8600 0.8582 +0.21% -3.76% +0.8612 +0.8574
NZ
Dollar/Dollar $0.7016 $0.7005 +0.18% -2.28% +$0.7031 +$0.6994
Dollar/Norway
8.6310 8.6700 -0.49% +0.47% +8.6860 +8.6275
Euro/Norway
10.1300 10.1890 -0.58% -3.22% +10.1877 +10.1210
Dollar/Sweden
8.6478 8.6854 -0.38% +5.51% +8.6979 +8.6415
Euro/Sweden
10.1505 10.1895 -0.38% +0.74% +10.1965 +10.1480


U.S. and European stocks churned higher on Wednesday as market jitters around property developer China Evergrande eased, while the dollar index edged lower ahead of a U.S. Federal Reserve meeting.
NEW YORK/LONDON (Reuters) -U.S. and European stocks churned higher on Wednesday as market jitters around property developer China Evergrande eased, while the dollar index edged lower ahead of a U.S. Federal Reserve meeting.
Slideshow ( 2 images )
MSCI’s gauge of stocks across the globe gained 0.62%, bouncing back for a second day after it logged its biggest one-day percentage drop in two months on Monday.
Wall Street’s main indexes moved higher in early Wednesday trade following solid gains for markets in Europe.
China Evergrande agreed to settle interest payments on a domestic bond, while the Chinese central bank injected cash into the banking system, soothing investors’ fears of imminent contagion from the debt-laden property developer that had pressured equities and other riskier assets at the start of the week.
“Right or wrong, people I think are starting to show signs that they think maybe this pullback has reached its worst point,” said Randy Frederick, vice president of trading and derivatives for Charles Schwab in Austin, Texas. “It wasn’t entirely the Evergrande situation, but it seems like that was one of the biggest pieces of it.”
On Wall Street, the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 361.36 points, or 1.07%, to 34,281.2, the S&P 500 gained 37.02 points, or 0.85%, to 4,391.21 and the Nasdaq Composite added 88.66 points, or 0.6%, to 14,835.06.
The pan-European STOXX 600 index rose 0.93%, with bank stocks surging.
With a number of central banks around the world meeting this week, the Bank of Japan (BOJ) offered a bleaker view on exports and output as Asian factory shutdowns caused supply bottlenecks, but maintained its optimism that robust global growth would keep the economic recovery on track. BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda also brushed aside fears that the debt problems of Evergrande could disrupt the global financial system.
Investors were closely watching the Fed, with the U.S. central bank expected to clear the way on Wednesday for reductions to its monthly asset purchases later this year.
The dollar index fell 0.102%, with the euro up 0.16% to $1.1742. The Japanese yen weakened 0.32% versus the greenback at 109.56 per dollar.
Benchmark U.S. 10-year notes last rose 1/32 in price to yield 1.3209%, from 1.324% late on Tuesday.
Oil prices climbed after industry data showed U.S. crude stocks fell more than expected last week after two hurricanes, highlighting tight supply as demand improves.
U.S. crude rose 1.93% to $71.85 per barrel and Brent was at $75.77, up 1.9% on the day.
Spot gold dropped 0.1% to $1,773.31 an ounce, after three sessions of gains.


(Opens U.S. market) By Herbert Lash NEW YORK, Sept 22 - U.S. Treasury yields were little changed on Wednesday as fears of imminent contagion from China Evergrande receded after it settled interest payments on a domestic bond and investors awaited word from the Federal Reserve...
(Opens U.S. market) By Herbert Lash NEW YORK, Sept 22 - U.S. Treasury yields were little changed on Wednesday as fears of imminent contagion from China Evergrande receded after it settled interest payments on a domestic bond and investors awaited word from the Federal Reserve later in the day. The People's Bank of China injected 90 billion yuan into the banking system, soothing fears of financial fallout from a default by the debt-laden Chinese property developer. The Fed is expected to unveil how it will taper its monthly asset purchases later this year and show in updated projections whether higher-than-expected inflation or a resurgent COVID-19 pandemic further weighs on the economy. A statement from a two-day meeting of the Fed's policy-setting committee is expected at 2 p.m. ET. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note was down 0.5 basis points at 1.319% as investors awaited the statement and remarks from Fed Chair Jerome Powell. The market consensus expects the Fed as soon as November to begin to reduce its Treasury purchases by $10 billion a month and mortgage-backed security purchases by $5 billion a month. The timeframe could be much slower that people expect, with the consensus view executed on a quarterly basis, not monthly, said Steven Ricchiuto, U.S. chief economist at Mizuho Securities USA LLC. "You need to make sure the system adjusts very slowly to the developments. There's a lot of concern on the committee that if they pull back too quickly, they will cause a problem," Ricchiuto said. The Fed likely will reduce its growth numbers for 2021 and next year, while raising its inflation target for the two years, Ricchiuto said. The unemployment rate target may also be raised a touch, but stagflation will not be part of the picture. "People will read a little bit of stagflation into the numbers, which I don't think is valid. Stagflation isn't possible in the world we live in," Ricchiuto said. A closely watched part of the U.S. Treasury yield curve measuring the gap between yields on two- and 10-year Treasury notes, seen as an indicator of economic expectations, was at 109.6 basis points. The two-year U.S. Treasury yield, which typically moves in step with interest rate expectations, was up 0.6 basis points at 0.222%. The breakeven rate on five-year U.S. Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities (TIPS) was last at 2.455%. The 10-year TIPS breakeven rate was last at 2.298%, indicating the market sees inflation averaging about 2.3% a year for the next decade. September 22 Wednesday 10:24AM New York / 1424 GMT Price Current Net Yield % Change (bps) Three-month bills 0.025 0.0253 0.000 Six-month bills 0.04 0.0406 -0.005 Two-year note 99-208/256 0.2221 0.006 Three-year note 99-190/256 0.4623 0.010 Five-year note 99-150/256 0.8358 0.007 Seven-year note 100-4/256 1.1226 0.000 10-year note 99-92/256 1.3192 -0.005 20-year bond 99-64/256 1.795 -0.011 30-year bond 103-96/256 1.8524 -0.005 DOLLAR SWAP SPREADS Last (bps) Net Change (bps) U.S. 2-year dollar swap 11.25 0.00 spread U.S. 3-year dollar swap 12.25 0.25 spread U.S. 5-year dollar swap 10.50 0.25 spread U.S. 10-year dollar swap 2.25 0.00 spread U.S. 30-year dollar swap -25.00 -0.25 spread (Reporting by Herbert Lash; Editing by Will Dunham)


Canada's main stock index was on course for its biggest percentage gain in two months on Wednesday as energy stocks climbed more than 3%, while investors focused on the U.S. Federal Reserve's policy decision due later in the day.
(Updates prices, adds comment)
Sept 22 (Reuters) - Canada’s main stock index was on course for its biggest percentage gain in two months on Wednesday as energy stocks climbed more than 3%, while investors focused on the U.S. Federal Reserve’s policy decision due later in the day.
The Toronto Stock Exchange’s S&P/TSX composite index added 0.75% to 20,395.51, set for its best day since July 21.
The energy group extended gains for a second straight session as crude prices climbed more than $1 after data showed U.S. crude stocks fell more than expected last week in the wake of two hurricanes.
The materials sector, which includes precious and base metals miners and fertilizer companies, added 1.6%.
Commodities and other risky assets rallied as China’s central bank injected cash into the banking system and on relief that the country’s debt-burdened Evergrande would pay interest on a domestic bond.
“Now with People’s Bank of China stepping in to support China’s financial system, commodities are bouncing back and that’s a positive for Canadian markets,” said Colin Cieszynski, chief market strategist at SIA Wealth Management.
Traders are tracking the Fed’s policy meeting for clues on when the U.S. central bank will begin to trim its massive pandemic-era stimulus measures.
“At some point the markets will ask why not, because if the economy is strong, and inflation is picking up and then one would think the Fed should be tapering, just like the Bank of Canada has been,” added Cieszynski.
The Canadian benchmark index, which has recorded seven straight months of gains, is on track to end September in the red amid concerns over slowing global growth, rising inflation and the spread of the Delta COVID-19 variant.
HIGHLIGHTS
Aurora Cannabis Inc fell 1.9% after it said it will shut down a facility in Edmonton, Alberta, adding to the woes of the cash-strapped Canadian pot producer which has been reeling under the impact of the pandemic since last year.
Celestica Inc surged 12.6% to become the biggest percentage gainer on the TSX after the chipmaker agreed to buy PCI Ltd for $306 million in cash from Platinum Equity.
The TSX posted two new 52-week highs and no new lows. (Reporting by Amal S in Bengaluru; Editing by Sriraj Kalluvila)


The main question: when will the Federal Reserve start pulling back on its extraordinary monetary stimulus?
When will the Federal Reserve start pulling back on its extraordinary monetary stimulus?
That's the major question that Fed watchers hope to get an answer for later this afternoon, when the Federal Open Market Committee releases its updated policy decision.
Chatter has been building within the central bank over slowing the pace of its asset purchases.
Since the depths of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Fed has been absorbing about $120 billion a month in U.S. Treasuries and agency mortgage-backed securities. Fed Chairman Jerome Powell has signaled that the FOMC is likely to begin the process of "tapering" those purchases before the end of the year.
Weaker-than-expected August data could push back an official taper announcement to the FOMC's November meeting. If the Fed has nothing to announce this afternoon, attention will likely shift to the Fed's projections on interest rates.
The FOMC is expected to release an updated "dot plot," mapping out each of the 18 committee members' expectations for where interest rates will go through 2024. The central bank messaged in June the likelihood of two interest rate hikes before the end of 2023. Fed watchers will be closely watching if Fed officials feel more optimistic about the ability to further raise rates over the next few years.
Powell will face a number of questions on tapering and the dot plot, but reporters will also likely quiz him on the flurry of other news items confronting the central bank.
Powell may field questions on the risks presented by the debt ceiling debate and the financial troubles of Chinese real estate giant Evergrande. Concerns have also been raised over the Fed's ethics rules after the revelation of senior Fed officials making large stock trades over the course of 2020.
The FOMC statement and dot plot projections will be released at 2 p.m. ET, followed by Powell's press conference at 2:30 p.m. ET.
Brian Cheung is a reporter covering the Fed, economics, and banking for Yahoo Finance. You can follow him on Twitter @bcheungz.
Follow Yahoo Finance on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, Flipboard, LinkedIn, YouTube, and reddit


U.S. stocks opened higher on Wednesday as concerns over a default by China's Evergrande eased, with investors now awaiting policy cues from the Federal Reserve's meeting later in the day.
FILE PHOTO: A street sign for Wall Street is seen outside the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) in New York City, New York, U.S., July 19, 2021. REUTERS/Andrew Kelly/File Photo
(Reuters) - U.S. stocks opened higher on Wednesday as concerns over a default by China’s Evergrande eased, with investors now awaiting policy cues from the Federal Reserve’s meeting later in the day.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 87.03 points, or 0.26%, at the open to 34,006.87. The S&P 500 opened higher by 13.24 points, or 0.30%, at 4,367.43. The Nasdaq Composite gained 54.19 points, or 0.37%, to 14,800.59 at the opening bell.


MARKETS were today nervously eyeing imminent news from the US Federal Reserve and the Bank of England amid growing fears that the central banks have lost control of inflation and could be forced to change tack on interest rates.
M ARKETS were today nervously eyeing imminent news from the US Federal Reserve and the Bank of England amid growing fears that the central banks have lost control of inflation and could be forced to change tack on interest rates.
The Fed will reveal its latest thinking later today, the Bank at noon tomorrow, with analysts warning that the chances of a misstep that leads to a big shift in bond prices is high.
Recent economic woes such as a global supply chain crisis and soaring energy costs may also make it harder for the central banks to begin withdrawing support for the economy by pulling back on quantitative easing – mass purchases of government bonds.
Inflation keeps beating central banks’ expectations, causing many economists to bring forward their prediction of when interest rates will rise. Many now say that will come early next year.
Capital Economics is a rare outlier, insisting rates will remain unchanged at 0.1% until 2023. It told clients: “The Monetary Policy Committee signalled in August that it is getting closer to raising interest rates, but the gloomy tone of the recent news on the global and UK economies will have reduced the pressure…to tighten policy.”
Signs of a flip-flop on rates or QE are likely to rattle already frayed investor nerves.
Inflation climbed to 3.2% in August from July’s 2%, the biggest spike on record.
Simon French at Panmure Gordon: “What will really unnerve markets is the sense that central bankers are losing theirs when it comes to inflation.”
Last night the Bank of Japan was the first major central bank to speak this month. It offered a bleak view on exports and output.
"Exports and factory output continue to increase, although they are partly affected by supply constraints," the BoJ said. That was a gloomier view than in July, when it said exports and output "continued to increase steadily."
Naomi Muguruma, senior market economist at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities, said: “The BOJ probably thinks the supply-chain disruption and global chip shortages will be resolved sooner or later. But there’s new risks emerging from China’s slowdown.”


Fed policy-makers, who are wrapping up their latest two-day meeting, have been handed a conflicting set of developments since late July and been conflicted among themselves about how to react
Open this photo in gallery The Federal Reserve building, in Washington, on Aug. 22, 2018. Chris Wattie/Reuters
The Federal Reserve is expected to clear the way on Wednesday for reductions to its monthly asset purchases later this year and show in updated projections whether higher-than-expected inflation or a resurgent coronavirus pandemic is weighing more on the economic outlook.
Fed policy-makers, who are wrapping up their latest two-day meeting, have been handed a conflicting set of developments since late July – signs of a slowdown in the service sector, a COVID-19 surge that has eclipsed that of last summer and weak job growth in August, all alongside still strong inflation – and been conflicted among themselves about how to react.
Officials have for the most part said the economic recovery will continue and allow the U.S. central bank to proceed with plans to reduce its $120-billion in monthly purchases of Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities by the end of 2021, and wind them down fully over the first half of next year.
Story continues below advertisement
But forecasters and outside analysts expect the Fed to hedge on exactly when the “taper” might begin, and tie it to a rebound in job growth following the disconcertingly tepid report in August, when only 235,000 jobs were created.
The Fed is due to release its latest policy statement and economic projections at 2 p.m. EDT (1800 GMT), with Fed Chair Jerome Powell holding a news conference half an hour later to discuss the outcome.
The statement will likely acknowledge that the economy has taken another step towards the “substantial further progress” the Fed has said it wants to see in the labour market before reducing its bond purchases, Jefferies economists Aneta Markowska and Thomas Simons said in an analysis. While August job growth was disappointing, U.S. nonfarm payrolls swelled by just over 1 million in July and have increased an average 716,000 since May.
Still, high-frequency data and alternate employment indicators have hinted that upcoming jobs gains may disappoint as well, and the Jefferies analysts said the first actual reduction in asset purchases will likely be “conditional on a solid September employment gain.”
The U.S. job market remains about 5.3 million positions short of where it was before the pandemic.
More than 60 per cent of economists who responded to a Reuters poll said they expected the tapering of the bond purchases to begin in December.
Fed officials, however, may decide they need more time to assess the risk from a handful of evolving issues before deciding to push ahead with the reduction in the bond-buying program.
Story continues below advertisement
Financial markets have been roiled in the last week by concerns about spillover effects from the potential collapse of a large Chinese property developer, China Evergrande Group, and the S&P 500 index kicked off the week with its largest daily loss in four months.
Meanwhile, U.S. lawmakers appear no closer to resolving a partisan standoff in Congress over lifting the federal debt ceiling, with the potential for a partial shutdown of the federal government rising by the day.
INFLATION WATCH
When the bond-buying taper does come, it will mark the start of a shift away from the measures put in place in March 2020 to help the economy through the pandemic, and towards more normal monetary policies that will eventually include higher interest rates.
Powell, who is likely to learn before the Fed’s Nov. 2-3 policy meeting whether President Joe Biden wants to nominate him for a second term as head of the central bank, has emphasized in several high-profile speeches, including at a Kansas City Fed research conference last month, that the eventual start of the bond-buying taper is unrelated to the debate over interest rates. It is a point he is likely to reiterate on Wednesday.
Policy-makers’ new economic and interest rate projections, however, will provide some sense of how fast rate hikes may follow the taper, and in particular whether a bout of high inflation has officials pencilling in an initial increase for next year.
The Fed’s preferred measure of inflation as of July was about 4.2 per cent on an annualized basis. That is double the central bank’s 2 per cent target and enough in the minds of some officials to meet the central bank’s new promise to let inflation run moderately above that target for a while to be sure it is reached on average, a precursor to raising rates.
Story continues below advertisement
Leaning in the other direction: The surge of COVID-19 infections driven by the Delta variant of the coronavirus.
Since June, when the Fed noted the positive impact of COVID-19 vaccinations and said the economy’s performance appeared to be separating from the pandemic, the seven-day average of new daily infections had ballooned fivefold to 66,000 by the central bank’s July 27-28 meeting. It has roughly doubled again since then.
Some measures of service activity have dipped, prompting forecasters to mark down their outlooks for economic growth this year.
The Fed may well follow suit.
Be smart with your money. Get the latest investing insights delivered right to your inbox three times a week, with the Globe Investor newsletter. Sign up today.


Six weeks ago, the Federal Reserve was sending signals that it was time to start backing away from crisis-era support for the US economy.
A version of this story first appeared in CNN Business' Before the Bell newsletter. Not a subscriber? You can sign up right here
London (CNN Business) Six weeks ago, the Federal Reserve was sending signals that it was time to start backing away from crisis-era support for the US economy.
"It's not clear to me that we're really doing anything useful here," St. Louis Federal Reserve Bank President James Bullard said on Aug. 10 of the Fed's $120 billion in monthly bond purchases.
Dallas Fed President Robert Kaplan agreed. "What I don't want to do is keeping running at this speed for too long, and then we're going to have to take more aggressive action down the road," he told CNBC around the same time.
But the picture has changed since then, and when the Fed makes its latest policy announcement on Wednesday , it's expected to reiterate that for now, at least, it's sitting tight.
"A no change decision at the upcoming [Fed] meeting looks a foregone conclusion," ING strategists wrote in a recent note to clients, pointing to Chair Jerome Powell's remarks at the Jackson Hole symposium last month, which indicated that the central bank is not in a rush to change course.
Breaking it down: Inflation is still running hot. The Personal Consumption Expenditures Price Index, the Fed's favorite measure, rose at a rate of 4.2% in the year ended July, the fastest pace since January 1991. That's more than double the central bank's 2% target.
PPG PPG Sherwin-Williams SHW This month, a number of companies have revised down their earnings expectations as a result of higher prices., which makes paints and coatings, said third quarter sales volumes would be $225 million to $275 million lower, citing supply chain problems and raw material inflation. Competitormade a similar announcement.
Some economic data also indicates the US economy is powering through the impact of the Delta variant. Counter to expectations, US retail sales increased last month as consumers shelled out on clothing, furniture and groceries.
Taken together, inflation readings and signs of economic resilience should be encouraging the Fed to act sooner rather than later. But Wall Street now thinks the central bank will make this call in November, with the tapering of bond purchases starting by near end.
Why? Simply because the situation remains murky. In August, spending at restaurants was flat month-over-month, indicating Delta concerns are having some effect on consumers. And the most recent US jobs report showed that just 235,000 positions were added in August, a major disappointment.
"Ultimately, the determination of the decision on tapering likely comes down to the pace of labor market improvement over coming months," Ellen Zentner, Morgan Stanley's chief US economist, said in a research note. She thinks the Fed will delay a tapering announcement until December so it can parse more jobs data.
Watch this space: With agreement that the Fed is on hold for the time being, the most market-sensitive moment of Wednesday's announcement is likely to be the release of the central bank's latest economic forecasts, as well as its "dot plot," which tracks expectations for when interest rate hikes will kick in.
In the last update, seven out of 18 Fed officials said rate increases would likely start in 2022. ING thinks it's conceivable that "one or two more bring their forecast forward" to next year. "We suspect the median stays at 2023 for now, but it will be a close call," the bank predicts.
Evergrande meets crucial debt deadline, but another looms
China's Evergrande Group will pay interest due Thursday on one of its bonds, but it's keeping rattled investors guessing about the fate of a second, bigger payment due this week.
The latest: The troubled Chinese real estate conglomerate said Wednesday in a filing with the Shenzhen Stock Exchange that issues regarding a payment on a domestic yuan bond have been "settled through negotiations."
Many questions remain unanswered, though, my CNN Business colleague Laura He reports. Evergrande did not elaborate on the terms of the payment. The amount of interest it owes on the bond is about 232 million yuan ($36 million), according to data from Refinitiv.
Interest worth $83.5 million on a dollar-denominated bond is also due Thursday, though the company has not said anything publicly about what will happen with that payment.
Remember: Evergrande is stumbling under $300 billion worth of liabilities, which are widely held by Chinese financial institutions, retail investors, home buyers and suppliers in construction, materials and design industries. Foreign investors also hold some of its debt.
In the last few weeks, the company warned investors twice that it could default if it's unable to raise money quickly.
It's not clear whether the company will actually default, or whether Beijing will intervene and orchestrate some other type of restructuring. But the company's failure would likely create aftershocks that could ripple through the financial market and the broader Chinese economy.
"There appears to be an acceptance that an Evergrande failure is more a matter of when and not if, and the real question is how any fallout is managed," Michael Hewson, chief market analyst at CMC Markets, said in a report Wednesday.
The debt debate is heading for a Senate showdown
The House of Representatives voted Tuesday to pass legislation to prevent a government shutdown at the end of the month and suspend the nation's borrowing limit. Now comes phase two: a showdown with Republicans who insist Democrats should act alone to stave off a looming debt crisis.
The backstory: Government funding is set to expire on Sept. 30. The bill the House approved would extend funding and keep the government open through Dec. 3, while shelving the country's debt limit until December 2022. But the bill now faces an uphill battle in the Senate.
Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen has warned of dire consequences if the debt ceiling isn't raised, barring the government from paying its bills as soon as next month.
"The US has never defaulted. Not once," she wrote in an op-ed in the Wall Street Journal published Sunday. "Doing so would likely precipitate a historic financial crisis that would compound the damage of the continuing public health emergency."
Goldman Sachs observed that "investors are growing concerned about market spillovers" from a political standoff in a note to clients on Tuesday. Yet the data indicates those fears may be overblown.
"History shows that US government shutdowns generally have not meaningfully impacted equity returns," the investment bank said.
Still, a possible debt crisis is far from the only issue provoking "extreme fear" on Wall Street, according to the CNN Business Fear & Greed Index. Combined with the situation surrounding Evergrande and uncertainty about the economy and the path of central bank action, the debt debate could trigger more volatility than usual in the days to come.
Up next
General Mills GIS BlackBerry BB KB Home KBH posts results before US markets open.andfollow after the close.
Also today:
Data on existing US home sales for August arrives at 10 a.m. ET.
The Federal Reserve's latest policy decision goes live at 2 p.m. ET, followed by a press conference with Chair Jerome Powell.
Coming tomorrow: The Bank of England wraps up its September meeting.


U.S. stock index futures rose on Wednesday as concerns over China's Evergrande eased after the property developer negotiated a domestic bond payment deal, with investors now awaiting policy cues from the Federal Reserve later in the day.
(For a live blog on the U.S. stock market, click or type LIVE/ in a news window)
* Futures up: Dow 0.66%, S&P 0.59%, Nasdaq 0.38%
Sept 22 (Reuters) - U.S. stock index futures rose on Wednesday as concerns over China’s Evergrande eased after the property developer negotiated a domestic bond payment deal, with investors now awaiting policy cues from the Federal Reserve later in the day.
Evergrande’s main unit said it had negotiated a deal with bondholders to settle interest payments on a domestic bond, which helped calm fears of an imminent default that could unleash global financial chaos.
The S&P 500 has fallen for 10 of the past 12 sessions since hitting a record high, as fears of an Evergrande default exacerbated seasonally weak trends and saw investors pull out of stocks trading at lofty valuations.
Focus now turns to the Fed’s decision, due at 2 p.m. ET (1800 GMT) where the bank could possibly unveil plans to begin scaling back its massive coronavirus-related stimulus measures.
A raft of positive economic data in recent weeks has strengthened expectations for a taper announcement from the central bank by as soon as September.
Commodity-linked oil and metal stocks led gains in premarket trade, while a slight rise in Treasury yields supported major banks. However, most sectors were nursing steep losses in recent sessions.
U.S. S&P 500 E-minis were up 25.5 points, or 0.59%, at 06:26 a.m. ET. Dow E-minis were up 222 points, or 0.66%, with 50,454 contracts changing hands. Nasdaq 100 E-minis were up 57.75 points, or 0.38%.
The Nasdaq fell the least among its peers in recent sessions, as investors pivoted back into big technology names that had proven resilient through the pandemic.
Among individual stocks, Fedex Corp fell 5.8% on posting a lower quarterly profit and the delivery firm also cut its full-year earnings forecast. (Reporting by Ambar Warrick in Bengaluru; Editing by Shounak Dasgupta)


The Fed is expected to clearly signal that it will slow bond purchases later this year. But the meeting comes as stocks sink.
The Fed is expected to clearly signal that it will slow bond purchases later this year. But the meeting comes as stocks sink.
Image The Fed chair, Jerome H. Powell, has been carefully telegraphing the central bank’s progress toward the so-called taper, in hopes that the Fed can avoid surprising and roiling markets. Credit... Brendan Mcdermid/Reuters
The Federal Reserve is finishing up its two-day policy meeting on Wednesday, and officials are expected to signal that they will soon slow their large bond-buying program — the central bank’s first step in weaning the economy off the support it has offered since shortly after the pandemic began.
This Fed meeting is shaping up to be among the most closely watched of the year. Central bank officials are in the process of teeing up their plans to slow large-scale purchases of government-backed debt, which they have been using to keep longer-term interest rates low and many types of borrowing cheap. The Fed has been carefully broadcasting its progress toward the so-called taper, in hopes that it can avoid surprising and roiling markets. Officials could provide further details on the expected timing and pace.
The Fed — which will release its policy statement at 2 p.m. — will also provide fresh economic projections. Those will include policymakers’ predictions of when they might lift their main interest rate from near-zero, a move that officials have signaled is still months or even years away.
“The Fed has been very clear on their intentions,” said Michelle Meyer, chief U.S. economist at Bank of America, noting that officials want to get moving on the bond program so that they can separate it from the path ahead for the federal funds rate. “That’s one of the reasons they want to get the taper underway — they just want it on the back burner.”
Most economists expect the Fed to formally announce the tapering plan at its November meeting, and few expect officials to signal a precise timeline this week. Instead, they will probably say that they hope to slow bond purchases before the end of the year, and may offer hints about how quickly the purchases will draw to a close.
“Their goal is just to keep inching toward the taper,” said Gennadiy Goldberg, senior U.S. rates strategist at TD Securities. “Why pre-commit yourself?” Indeed, there’s a reason for all the tiptoeing. In 2013, when a former Fed Chair suggested that a post-financial-crisis bond purchase program would slow, it roiled global markets in what became known as the “taper tantrum.” Jerome H. Powell, the current Fed chair, has managed to avoid a similar fate so far, but the stakes right now are particularly high. Markets have been rocky this week as investors have fretted about stress in China’s real estate sector and the Fed’s plans. That risk is probably not enough to dissuade central bankers from sticking to the course they have charted, economists said. “It’s taken some effort to get Fed officials all on the same page, and to get the Fed and the markets on the same page,” Michael Feroli, chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan, said in an email Monday. “I’d be surprised if they want to upend that for something that may be fleeting.” The Fed is also wrestling with more long-lasting questions about the economic outlook. Inflation has been elevated this year as the economy has begun to reopen from the pandemic and supply has struggled to keep pace with rapid consumer demand, and some measures of consumer inflation expectations are creeping higher. If that continues, rapid price gains could become more permanent. That would run counter to one of the Fed’s two main goals. The central bank is in charge of keeping inflation low and steady — it aims for 2 percent annual increases in prices on average over time — while fostering maximum employment. But full employment also remains elusive. Millions of jobs are still missing, even after months of historically rapid employment gains, and officials want to avoid lifting interest rates to cool off the economy before the labor market has fully healed. It’s difficult to know when that might be, because the economy has never recovered from pandemic-induced lockdowns before. Tapering bond purchases could give the Fed room to be nimble going forward, allowing it to lift interest rates relatively quickly if it appears that inflation is climbing in a way that is likely to be sustained. Officials have signaled that they would prefer not to lift interest rates before bond buying is brought to a close. After the Fed releases its statement, Mr. Powell will offer a statement and take questions from reporters at 2:30 p.m.
Read more


Most emerging market bourses rose on Wednesday on temporary relief after indebted Chinese developer Evergrande said it would make a Thursday coupon payment, while focus was also on the U.S. Federal Reserve's policy decision for clues on tapering.
* Evergrande to make Thursday coupon payment
* China blue-chips, Taiwan stocks fall in catch-up trade
* S.Africa August inflation rises more than expected
* Russia to spend $34 bln from rainy day fund
* Fed in focus for tapering clues
Sept 22 (Reuters) - Most emerging market bourses rose on Wednesday on temporary relief after indebted Chinese developer Evergrande said it would make a Thursday coupon payment, while focus was also on the U.S. Federal Reserve’s policy decision for clues on tapering.
Shares in Russia, South Africa, Turkey and Poland rose between 0.6% and 1.5%.
An index of EM shares, however, fell 0.2% pressured by declines in China blue-chips and Taiwan stocks as they caught up with the global stumble after being closed for public holidays. EM debt spreads retreated from one month lows hit on Tuesday.
Hong Kong markets were closed, but Evergrande’s Frankfurt listing surged about 20% after its unit said a coupon payment totalling 232 million yuan ($35.88 million) on its Shenzhen-traded 5.8% September 2025 bond would be made on time.
But worries remained as Evergrande made no mention of an $83.53 million coupon payment on an offshore dollar bond also due on Thursday. Evergrande’s total debt stands at $305 billion.
“This is obviously a fluid situation that we will need to monitor closely... there could be some further impact,” Kevin Headland, senior investment strategist at Manulife Investment Management told the Reuters Global Markets Forum, adding that they don’t expect a default to lead to widespread contagion.
“We think emerging market equities are very attractive longer term, provided you understand the risk of shorter term volatility. The fundamentals are supportive of EM... These market events often create dislocations that provide opportunity.”
Later in the day, the Fed is expected to drop more hints on its future policy path, including when it will start tapering its bond buying and, eventually, raising interest rates.
The dollar was steady, lending some support to EM currencies. The onshore yuan rose from near four-week lows. China kept its benchmark lending rate for corporate and household loans unchanged, as expected.
Russia’s rouble climbed a healthy 0.8%, supported by rising oil prices.
Officials said Russia will spend around 2.5 trillion roubles ($34 billion) from its National Wealth Fund in the next three years to help revive economic growth leading up to elections in 2024. But the central bank has warned that spending from the Fund too freely could fan inflation further.
South Africa’s rand firmed 0.5% after losing more than 4.5% over the last six days, while Turkey’s lira was flat.
The central banks of both countries are expected to keep rates unchanged when they meet on Thursday. South Africa's inflation was 4.9% in August, above expectations and up from 4.6% in July. South Africa's central bank has a 3%-6% inflation target range. For GRAPHIC on emerging market FX performance in 2021, see tmsnrt.rs/2egbfVh For GRAPHIC on MSCI emerging index performance in 2021, see tmsnrt.rs/2OusNdX
For TOP NEWS across emerging markets
For CENTRAL EUROPE market report, see
For TURKISH market report, see
For RUSSIAN market report, see


