The Federal Reserve is expected to announce that it lifted its core interest rate by as much as 0.5%, its second hike in two months as it works to cool inflation
The Federal Reserve is expected to lift its core interest rate by as much as 0.5 percent on Wednesday — its second hike in two months as the central bank works to fight inflation levels that have reached 40-year highs.
The widely expected move comes as the Fed seeks to cool off a pandemic recovery that has produced stellar job growth, but that has come against a backdrop of soaring prices across a range of goods and services, from gas to real estate. Labor, too, has gotten more expensive, fueling shortages and putting pressure on the Fed to slow companies' expansion plans.
Thanks to prior comments by Fed Chairman Jerome Powell and other Fed officials in the run-up to Wednesday's announcement, higher rates have already begun to show up in everyday borrowing transactions for products including homes and autos, according to Gus Faucher, senior vice president and chief economist of the PNC Financial Services Group.
"Where we're more likely to see them [higher rates] show up now in is short-term borrowing costs," Faucher said. "So one-year adjustable-rate mortgages, CD [certificate of deposit] rates may move up a little bit."
While surging prices have historically come amid sputtering economic growth, many economists see the U.S.'s current financial picture as one that has been able to largely absorb recent leaps in the cost of goods.
Still, there remains some concern that the Fed has fallen behind when it comes to fighting inflation, and that it could end up having to raise rates so aggressively that it ends up tipping the economy into a recession. As economists at Bank of America wrote in a note to investors Monday, markets believe the Fed may have to set the federal funds rate beyond 3 percent to cool down inflation by making it more expensive to borrow. The current core or federal funds rate is now 0.33 percent.
Some economists were encouraged by data Monday that showed a slowdown in U.S. manufacturing activity as one reason why the Fed may not have to be as aggressive in raising rates as some have feared in recent months. Ian Shepherdson, chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics, is among those who believe inflation likely peaked in March, meaning the Fed will be able to slow its pace of interest rate hikes.
In a note to clients Monday, Shepherdson also cited "the rollover in housing demand, the impending steep drop in inflation, and the broad tightening of financial conditions" as arguments against "endless" rate hikes. "None of this will prevent a 50 [basis point] hike [Wednesday], or likely in June, but we are on the alert for markets to start scaling back their expectations for mid-summer onwards."
But PNC's Faucher said he believes a recession could still come in the next 24 months or so. He puts the odds that the economy goes into reverse at about 1 in 3.
"The Fed may decide we need to experience a mild recession to bring down wage-inflationary pressures," Faucher said. "But the good news is starting from a very good place in the labor market."
As a result, Faucher said, job losses are more likely to be concentrated in areas like housing and other durable goods that are interest-rate sensitive, as opposed to services consumption.
Still, he said, the next few years are likely to be turbulent.
"Right now the economy looks good," Faucher said. "We've got good job growth, good consumer spending growth, so we are not in imminent danger of a recession — but the risk is elevated, and even if we don’t get a recession, things are going to be bumpy the next couple of years."


Turmoil on Wall Street is a feature, not a bug, of the Federal Reserve's fight against inflation, according to former New York Federal Reserve President Bill Dudley.
New York (CNN Business) Turmoil on Wall Street is a feature, not a bug, of the Federal Reserve's fight against inflation, according to former New York Federal Reserve President Bill Dudley.
"What's happening right now is exactly what the Federal Reserve wants to happen," Dudley told CNN in an interview, referring to recent volatility in the financial markets
Turbulence on Wall Street has increased as investors worry about a potential recession and brace for a series of interest rate hikes from the Federal Reserve. The S&P 500 lost more than 13% of its value between January and April, marking its worst start to a year since 1939
"They want a weaker stock market. They want higher bond yields," Dudley said. "The stock market I think is finally catching onto that."
The Fed came to the rescue in March 2020 by slashing interest rates to zero and promising to purchase trillions of dollars in bonds. Those moves laid the foundation for blockbuster returns in the stock market, gains that helped revive confidence in the US economy after the onset of Covid-19.
Read More


President Joe Biden will speak on economic growth, jobs and deficit reduction on Wednesday, just hours before the Federal Reserve is expected to make a significant rate hike to control inflation.
President Biden will address the U.S. economy and rising inflation during his remarks on Wednesday, the White House said. Photo by Samuel Corum/UPI | License Photo
May 4 (UPI) -- President Joe Biden will speak on economic growth, jobs and deficit reduction on Wednesday, just hours before the Federal Reserve is expected to make a significant rate hike to control inflation. The Fed ends its two-day policy meeting on Wednesday afternoon and is widely expected by most analysts to make a half-point or three-quarter-point interest rate hike -- a standard move to get a handle on rising prices. Advertisement
Biden was scheduled to deliver his remarks at 11 a.m. EDT.
The Fed last increased rates in March by a quarter-point for the first time since 2018. That followed two years of rate decreases and emergency actions to counter the COVID-19 crisis.
Earlier Wednesday, ADP and Moody's Analytics reported that the U.S. economy added almost 250,000 private jobs in April, missing expectations by about 130,000 hirings.
Most of the new jobs were created among larger companies and small businesses on the whole lost jobs last month.
The Labor Department will issue its April jobs report on Friday. Most economists expect that survey to show about 385,000 new hirings last month.
Advertisement
This week in Washington


U.S. government bond yields edged higher after the Treasury Department announced changes to debt auctions, with investors awaiting the outcome of the Federal Reserve’s latest meeting.
U.S. Treasury yields edged higher Wednesday after the Treasury Department announced changes to debt auctions, with investors awaiting the outcome of the Federal Reserve’s latest policy meeting.
Yields, which rise when bond prices fall, held fairly steady in the overnight session, with the 10-year yield briefly topping 3% before sliding back down again. They then held their range after the Treasury’s announcement, which revealed that it plans to make smaller reductions to the size of its fixed-rate note and bond auctions between May and July, after implementing larger cuts in recent months.


Digital assets remain under pressure as the crypto market awaits an interest-rate decision from the Federal Reserve.
Bitcoin prices rose Wednesday but cryptocurrencies remained under pressure, with the largest digital assets trading on the lower end of their recent ranges ahead of a hotly anticipated decision on interest rates from the Federal Reserve.
The price of Bitcoin was up 1% over the past 24 hours to above $38,900, bouncing higher from a recent low around $37,700. The leading digital asset had fallen four out of the past five days as of Tuesday and was trading on the lower end of its recent range around $40,000. Bitcoin changed...


JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon said Wednesday that the Federal Reserve should have moved sooner to raise interest rates and conceded the odds do not favor taming inflation without sparking a recession.
New York (CNN Business) JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon said Wednesday that the Federal Reserve should have moved sooner to raise interest rates and conceded the odds do not favor taming inflation without sparking a recession.
"We're a little late but remember two years ago we had 15% unemployment and no vaccine. People should take a deep breath and give them a chance," Dimon told Bloomberg TV. "The sooner they move the better."
JPMorgan JPM TheCEO added that the federal government needs to focus on national security in the wake of the war in Ukraine.
"The Cold War is back," Dimon said. "Global energy is precarious...If oil goes to $185 that's a huge problem for people and we should do everything we can today. We need to pump more oil and gas."
The good news is Dimon says the US economy is "very strong" right now and consumers are in "great shape."
Read More


U.S. stock futures pointed to a higher open Wednesday ahead of the conclusion of the Federal Reserve's two-day May meeting.
1. Wall Street set to rise ahead of Fed decision, after weaker ADP data
Traders on the floor of the NYSE, May 3, 2022. Source: NYSE
U.S. stock futures pointed to a higher open Wednesday ahead of the conclusion of the Federal Reserve's two-day May meeting, which almost certainly will bring an aggressive 50 basis point interest rate hike to fight inflation. If the premarket gains were to hold by the close, it would be the third straight positive session for the Dow Jones Industrial Average, the S&P 500 and the Nasdaq, the first time that's happened since March. The Dow on Tuesday rose 0.2%. The S&P 500 climbed nearly 0.5%, and the Nasdaq advanced 0.2%.
Monday, the first trading day of May, saw the S&P 500 hit a new 2022 intraday low before Wall Street rallied and closed higher across the board.
For all of April, the Nasdaq had its worst month since October 2008. The Dow and S&P 500 had their worst since March 2020, the month the Covid pandemic was declared.
2. Bond yields rise as investors contemplate a much more aggressive Fed
Traders work, as Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell is seen on a screen delivering remarks, at the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) in New York City, March 16, 2022. Brendan McDermid | Reuters
The benchmark 10-year Treasury yield on Wednesday ticked higher but traded below the prior session's push above 3% for a high back to December 2018. The Fed's May meeting ends at 2 p.m. ET and Chairman Jerome Powell holds his typical post-meeting news conference 30 minutes later. Respondents to the May CNBC Fed Survey expect the central bank to hike rates by 50 basis points again next month as it also looks to reduce its balance sheet. Survey respondents also anticipate a recession at the end of the Fed tightening cycle.
The market expects rate increases at the Fed's July, September, November and December meetings of at least 25 basis points, like the move in March, which was the first hike in rates in more than more three years.
ADP said Wednesday morning that U.S. companies added a much weaker-than-expected 247,000 jobs in April, as employers continue to struggle to find workers to fill open positions. The ADP data has not been the greatest indicator of the government's monthly payrolls number, which comes Friday.
3. Lyft, Uber sink after the ride-hailing companies report spotty quarters
A sign marks a rendezvous location for Lyft and Uber users at San Diego State University in San Diego, California, May 13, 2020. Mike Blake | Reuters
Lyft shares sank roughly 27% in Wednesday's premarket, the morning after the ride-hailing company said it would increase spending to attract more drivers, leading to forward guidance that fell short of analyst predictions. First-quarter earnings of 7 cents per share beat estimates for a 7-cent loss. Revenue of $876 million also surpassed estimates. Lyft reported 17.8 million active riders in Q1, narrowly missing estimates and lower then the fourth quarter's 18.73 million. Shares of Uber fell 9% in the premarket after the rides and logistics giant on Wednesday morning reported a better-than-expected increase in revenue during the first quarter to $6.85 billion. The company said it continues to recover from pandemic lows and won't have to put up "significant" investments to keep drivers. Uber did report a net loss of $5.9 billion for the first quarter, primarily due to its equity investments.
4. Moderna blows away earnings estimates; CVS Health raises its outlook
The Moderna Covid-19 vaccine is prepared for administration ahead of a free distribution of over the counter rapid Covid-19 test kits to people receiving their vaccines or boosters at Union Station in Los Angeles, California on January 7, 2022. Frederic J. Brown | AFP | Getty Images
Moderna sold $5.9 billion of its Covid vaccine in the first quarter, blowing out revenue and profit expectations. The company's shares soared around 4% in premarket trading. The biotech name on Wednesday maintained its full-year guidance of $21 billion in Covid vaccine sales. CEO Stephane Bancel said he expects Moderna to book even stronger vaccine sales in the second half of the year as governments order more shots to get ready for fall vaccination campaigns.
A CVS pharmacy is seen in Bloomsburg. Paul Weaver | LightRocket | Getty Images
Shares of CVS Health rose roughly 1.5% in the premarket after the drugstore and benefits management giant Wednesday morning reported better-than-expected first-quarter earnings and revenue. CVS said demand increased for prescriptions as it saw a more typical cough, cold and flu season in the first quarter. Sales of over-the-counter Covid test kits helped results, but coronavirus vaccines and in-store testing declined. CVS also raised full-year guidance.
5. Starbucks suspends guidance, sweetens perks amid union drives


The Federal Reserve is finally getting aggressive in its bid to fight decades-high inflation.
A version of this story first appeared in CNN Business' Before the Bell newsletter. Not a subscriber? You can sign up right here . You can listen to an audio version of the newsletter by clicking the same link.
London (CNN Business) The Federal Reserve is finally getting aggressive in its bid to fight decades-high inflation .
What's happening: The central bank is expected to hike interest rates by half a percentage point on Wednesday for the first time since 2000. Investors think it will deliver hikes of the same magnitude in June and July.
But arriving late to the scene will have consequences.
Boosting rates just as growth starts slowing comes with a heightened risk of cooling activity so much it triggers a recession. And in just a few months, the Fed may pay the price for playing catch-up.
"I think they're paying too much attention to what's happened in the past and not enough attention to what's happening going forward," Guillaume Menuet, Citi Private Bank's head of investment strategy and economics in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, told me.
Breaking it down: The Fed knows it needs to act decisively to keep inflation expectations from getting out of hand and to protect its credibility.
In March 2021, the central bank predicted median inflation in 2022 of just 2%. Fast forward one year, and the central bank's preferred measure of tracking consumer prices put inflation at 6.6% , the highest level in 40 years.
"We are late, late, late," said Pascal Blanqué, chairman of the Amundi Institute.
But getting tough right now won't be a clear fix for the problem. While raising interest rates sends an important signal, it typically takes 12 to 18 months for the impact of such a move to feed through to the economy.
Plus, while hiking rates can help put a lid on hot demand, it won't do anything to tackle the supply chain issues that have been a key driver of higher prices.
Meanwhile, the recovery from the pandemic is losing steam. Consumer spending is still strong, but news that the US economy shrank in the first three months of 2022 surprised economists
Elevated energy prices pose a big risk to consumption in the coming quarters, and a slowdown of activity in Europe and China could have global ramifications.
All this means that later this year, the Fed could find itself in a bind once again. Fed Chair Jerome Powell will face another conundrum: Should the central bank keep hiking interest rates to address inflation even if it tips the economy into recession, like Paul Volcker did in the early 1980s?
While Powell has expressed admiration for Volcker , both Menuet and Blanqué think it's unlikely that the Fed's current leader will channel his tactics for long. Since the 2008 financial crisis, the world has gotten very used to cheap money. That — plus the Fed's delay in starting to hike — will make it harder for the central bank to stay the course.
"I think it's probably going to be a case of short and sharp," Menuet said, referring to the Fed's tightening cycle.
Watch this space: The market expects the Fed to hike rates at every meeting for the rest of the year, achieving a main interest rate of more than 3% by the end of the 2022. If the Fed decides to prioritize normalizing interest rates over potential economic fallout, that's certainly possible.
But analysts at the Wells Fargo Investment Institute note that over time, interest rates have topped out at progressively lower levels. In 2006, they peaked at 5.25%, while in 2018, they only got as high as 2.5%. This time? Well, that depends on how long the Fed thinks it needs to compensate for its miscalculation on inflation.
EU proposes ban on Russian oil imports
The European Union is proposing to ban all oil imports from Russia and remove the country's biggest bank, Sberbank, from the SWIFT international payments network.
The latest: European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said Wednesday the measures would form part of a sixth round of sanctions against Russia over its invasion of Ukraine, my CNN Business colleague Mark Thompson reports.
"We now propose a ban on Russian oil," she said during a speech to the European Parliament. "Let's be clear: it will not be easy. But we simply have to work on it. We will make sure that we phase out Russian oil in an orderly fashion, to maximize pressure on Russia, while minimizing the impact on our own economies."
Crude oil supply would be phased out within six months, and imports of refined oil products by the end of 2022, she added.
News of the proposal, which still needs the approval of all EU member states, boosted crude oil prices. Last year, Russia accounted for about 27% of EU oil imports. The bloc will need to find supply elsewhere at a time when the market is already strained.
Market reaction: Brent futures, the global benchmark, rose more than 4% to above $109 a barrel, while US oil futures climbed above $106.80.
Oil prices have risen by about 40% since the start of the year on fears that Russia's invasion of Ukraine will deliver a supply shock, fueling inflation and piling pressure on European economies.
EU countries have already agreed to phase out Russian coal imports but the bloc has found it much harder to reach consensus on oil sanctions despite weeks of talks.
But it's not a done deal yet. Hungary recently reiterated its opposition to an oil embargo, and Slovakia is reportedly seeking an exemption.
There are a record number of open jobs in America
Want another sign that the Federal Reserve is in a tight spot? Just look at the latest data on US job openings, which hit a record high in March.
The United States had 11.5 million open positions that month, the highest level since the Bureau of Labor Statistics started keeping track in 2000. The number of Americans who quit their jobs also hit an all-time high of 4.5 million.
On one hand, the data is a sign that the Federal Reserve has been effective in its aim of keeping policy loose to support the job market's recovery from the pandemic, even as it overlooked inflation. Companies are creating hundreds of thousands of jobs each month, and people who want better pay or working conditions are finding it easy to switch from one role to another.
"Workers continue to quit and get hired at fast rates in today's economy," said Elise Gould, senior economist at the progressive Economic Policy Institute. "This 'churn' is a positive sign of a strengthening labor market where workers can quit, search and obtain new opportunities."
But the massive number of job openings has also become part of the problem.
Employers need to pay more to find the workers they need, raising their costs. They then hike prices to maintain their margins — which in turn compels workers to ask for even higher wages to cover their expenses, creating a vicious cycle known as the "wage-price spiral" that policymakers are desperate to avoid.
Up next
CVS Health CVS Dine Brands DIN Marriott MAR Moderna MRNA Uber UBER Etsy ETSY Hostess Brands TWNK Spirit Airlines SAVE andreport results before US markets open. Booking Holdings,andfollow after the close.
Also today:
The ISM Non-Manufacturing Index, which tracks the US services sector, posts at 10 a.m. ET.
The Fed's latest policy announcement arrives at 2 p.m. ET, followed by a press conference with Powell.


The stock market bounced back Wednesday on profit taking ahead of what is expected to be the biggest Federal Reserve interest rate hike in more than two decades.
The stock market bounced back Wednesday on profit taking ahead of what is expected to be the biggest Federal Reserve interest rate hike in more than two decades.
The Philippine Stock Exchange Index rose 81.65 points, or 1.2 percent, to 6,802.73 on a value turnover of P6.9 billion. Losers, however, beat gainers, 124 to 64, with 54 issues unchanged.
SM Prime Holdings Inc. of the Sy Group advanced 5 percent to P36.75, while noodles maker Monde Nissin Corp. climbed 3.7 percent to P13.90.
Fiber broadband provider Converge ICT Solutions Inc. increased 3.3 percent to P28.20, but Globe Telecom Inc., the second-biggest telecommunications firm, fell 2.3 percent to P2,222.
The rest of Asian equities fell in Asian trade Wednesday in nervous trading.
ADVERTISEMENT
With inflation showing little sign of easing from its 40-year highs, the US central bank has set itself on a hawkish course of tightening this year, sending shivers through world markets.
The prospect of higher borrowing costs has been compounded by a range of crises including the war in Ukraine, elevated oil prices and China’s COVID lockdowns that have strangled crucial global supply chains.
The Fed now has to walk a fine line between getting control of surging prices and making sure it does not knock the recovery in the world’s top economy off course.
“The Fed remains very focused on bringing inflation down, however, any further hawkish pivots will likely be tempered to some extent by the desire to achieve a soft landing,” said Blerina Uruci at T. Rowe Price.
The Fed is expected to announce a half-percentage point lift Wednesday—its biggest since 2000—but boss Jerome Powell’s post-meeting news conference will be closely watched for an idea about future hikes.
Speculation was swirling that 75 basis points could be on the table at some point this year.
“Powell will fall back to ‘we are not on pre-set rate hikes’ or something along those lines—’we go in with an open mind each meeting and will talk it over and we’ll see where we go from there’,” said Tony Farren, managing director at Mischler Financial Group.
“The market would take that as hawkish. For his comments to seem dovish, he’d have to shut down the talk of 75 basis points. And while I don’t think he’ll endorse it, I don’t think he’ll shut it down.”
After a broadly positive lead from Wall Street, Asian markets struggled in holiday-thinned trade.
Hong Kong, Sydney, Seoul, Mumbai and Singapore slipped, but Taipei rose while Wellington was flat.
Tokyo, Shanghai, Jakarta, Kuala Lumpur and Bangkok were closed.
Oil prices rose after European Commission president Ursula von der Leyen on Wednesday said the European Union would impose a gradual Russian oil ban in retaliation for the war in Ukraine.
The news offset the expected hit to demand from China’s coronavirus lockdowns, including in the country’s biggest city, Shanghai.
A huge release of crude from reserves by dozens of countries including the United States has also helped keep prices tempered.
Investors are waiting for a meeting Thursday of OPEC and other major producers including Russia, where they will discuss whether or not to lift output more than expected. With AFP
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.


A policy statement is due to be released at 2 p.m. EDT on Wednesday following the end of the Federal Reserve’s latest two-day meeting
An eagle tops the Federal Reserve building's facade in Washington, on July 31, 2013.Jonathan Ernst/Reuters
The Federal Reserve on Wednesday is expected to raise interest rates by half of a percentage point and announce the start of reductions to its $9-trillion balance sheet as U.S. central bankers intensify efforts to bring down high inflation.
Fed policy-makers have widely telegraphed a double-barrelled decision that would lift the Fed’s short-term target policy rate to a range between 0.75 per cent and 1 per cent, and set in motion a plan to trim its portfolio of Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities (MBS) by as much $95-billion a month.
The policy statement is due to be released at 2 p.m. EDT (1800 GMT) following the end of the Fed’s latest two-day meeting.
Markets have priced in further rate increases through this year and into next, including at least a couple more half-percentage-point hikes, as traders bet the central bank moves much more quickly than it had anticipated it would in March to get borrowing costs up to where they will start actively curbing inflation.
With no fresh Fed economic or policy rate projections due until the central bank’s June meeting, most clues on how far and how fast it is prepared to go will come from Fed Chair Jerome Powell’s news conference, which starts at 2:30 p.m. EDT.
The Fed began its current round of policy tightening in mid-March with a quarter-percentage-point rate hike, smaller than many policy-makers had wanted given inflation had hit a 40-year high, but calibrated so as not to inject more uncertainty into global markets roiled by Russia’s Feb. 24 invasion of Ukraine.
In the weeks since that decision, inflation has gained new steam as the war pushed up oil and food prices and China’s strict lockdowns to combat the spread of COVID-19 further disrupted supply chains.
Data on the U.S. labour market also suggests increasing labour market tightness, with employment costs surging as businesses struggle to hold onto workers. A record number of job openings may also translate to higher wages that could also feed through to inflation.
All that is ratcheting up the pressure on the Fed to act more decisively to rein things in.
“Powell will continue to have a strong incentive to sound hawkish,” Piper Sandler economist Roberto Perli said this week. “The Fed’s focus these days is 100 per cent on bringing inflation down, and hawkish expectations help that cause.”
In the run-up to this week’s meeting, Powell has said he wants to get rates “expeditiously” to what Fed policy-makers regard as a “neutral” range of 2.25 per cent-2.5 per cent, and then higher if needed.
Most of his colleagues appear to be on board with at least the first part of that plan.
The aim would be to lift borrowing costs high enough and fast enough that households slow spending and businesses pare hiring in response, reducing inflation that is now about three times the Fed’s 2 per cent target.
But the central bank wants to avoid raising rates so high or so fast that it short-circuits the labour market and trips up the economy. The U.S. unemployment rate has only just dropped to 3.6 per cent, near the pre-pandemic level, and any large reversal could be a prelude to a recession.
The Fed has managed “soft landings” infrequently in the past, analysts say, and at this point has allowed inflation to rise so much faster than interest rates that it may have already missed its chance to do so.
And while it is expected to raise rates rather quickly now to compensate, the inflation path will also depend on a number of factors beyond the Fed’s control, including the evolution of the pandemic, the war in Ukraine, and ongoing supply and labour shortages connected to both.
The Fed’s plan to reduce its balance sheet will also be a focus on Wednesday. While the broad outlines were disclosed about three weeks ago in minutes of the Fed’s March meeting, investors expect to learn details of the speed and extent of the plan, including possible MBS sales at some point in the future.
Be smart with your money. Get the latest investing insights delivered right to your inbox three times a week, with the Globe Investor newsletter. Sign up today.


U.S. stock futures opened little changed Tuesday evening, with investors looking ahead to the Federal Reserve's latest monetary policy decision against the backdrop of elevated inflation and a still-tight U.S. labor market. Contracts on the S&P 500 and Nasdaq gained, while Dow futures dipped.
U.S. stock futures edged higher Wednesday morning, with investors looking ahead to the Federal Reserve's latest monetary policy decision against the backdrop of elevated inflation and a still-tight U.S. labor market.
Contracts on the S&P 500, Dow and Nasdaq each rose in pre-market trading. Treasury yields steadied, and the benchmark 10-year yield hovered just below 3%, or near its highest level since late 2018.
Investors are awaiting the Federal Reserve's monetary policy statement and press conference from Chair Jerome Powell later Wednesday afternoon. The central bank is widely expected to raise interest rates by 50 basis points for the first time since 2000. Such a hike would be double the 25 basis-point increase the Fed unleashed in mid-March, which itself had been the first rate hike since 2018. This would bring the target range for the federal funds rate between 0.75% and 1.00%, compared to the current range of between 0.25% and 0.50%.
Expectations for this supersized rate hike have built for weeks now amid market participants, especially given commentary from key Federal Reserve officials appearing to support such a move. Powell said during a public appearance with the International Monetary Fund earlier this month that he believed it would be "appropriate ... to be moving a little more quickly" on raising rates, and that 50 basis points were "on the table" for May. And the Fed is also expected to use the May meeting to announce the start of quantitative tightening, or rolling assets off the central bank's $9 trillion balance sheet.
Prospects of higher interest rates have stirred up volatility in equity markets, which had grown accustomed over the past two years to ultra-low interest rates and generally easy-money monetary policies. At the same time, however, many pundits have suggested the Fed allowed its pandemic-era supportive policies to run too long, allowing inflation to soar to the fastest rates since the 1980s. And after GDP growth turned negative in the U.S. in the first three months of the year, a lingering question remains whether the Fed will now be able to tighten policies without tipping the economy into a deep downturn.
Story continues
"Because the market has priced in a 50 basis point rate hike at the Federal Reserve's May meeting, the focus will immediately shift to just how many half-point hikes the Fed expects to initiate over the balance of 2022," Danielle DiMartino Booth, CEO and chief strategist of Quill Intelligence, wrote in an email Tuesday. "The Fed would shock markets if it failed to deliver on more aggressive policy via a 50 basis point rate hike on Wednesday."
"The Federal Reserve's credibility is on the line, given the surge in inflation, which has proved to be anything but transitory," Booth added. "Interest rates are too low and markets have been way too accustomed to almost unlimited liquidity from the Fed's bond purchases. Powell's greatest folly would be to insist that the economy is very strong in the face of overwhelming evidence that it is slowing and slowing fast."
—
7:39 a.m. ET: Uber posts better-than-expected quarterly results, guidance
Uber (UBER) posted estimates-topping first-quarter results and current-quarter guidance Wednesday morning, with the ride-hailing company signaling it was working through driver shortages while maintaining solid profitability.
Revenue more than doubled during the first quarter to reach $6.9 billion, topping estimates for $6.1 billion, according to Bloomberg-compiled data. Adjusted EBITDA increased to $168 million, also coming in ahead of the $135 million expected. Trips during the first quarter increased by 18% over last year to reach 17.1 billion, underscoring the ongoing recovery in rider demand.
For the current quarter, Uber said it sees gross bookings coming in between $28.5 million and $29.5 billion, and adjusted EBITDA of between $240 million and $270 million.
Uber shares pared losses in early trading following the results. Earlier during the overnight session, Uber shares had slumped in sympathy with Lyft's stock, which slid after the ride-hailing company offered a current-quarter revenue and profit forecast that fell short of analyst expectations.
Uber was previously scheduled to report its quarterly results after market close on Wednesday, but after Lyft's report, "rescheduled to provide a more timely update on the company’s performance and guidance before the market opens," according to a statement.
—
7:29 a.m. ET Wednesday: Stock futures gain
Here's where markets were trading ahead of the opening bell
S&P 500 futures ( ES=F ) : +16.75 points (+0.4%) to 4,186.00
Dow futures ( YM=F ) : +122 points (+0.37%) to 33,155.00
Nasdaq futures ( NQ=F ): +44.75 points (+0.34%) to 13,132.25
Crude ( CL=F ) : +$3.88 (+3.79%) to $106.29 a barrel
Gold ( GC=F ) : -$4.30 (-0.23%) to $1,866.30 per ounce
10-year Treasury (^TNX): +0.4 bps to yield 2.962%
—
6:01 p.m. ET Tuesday: Stock futures open mixed
Here's where markets were trading Tuesday evening:
S&P 500 futures ( ES=F ) : +1.5 points (+0.04%) to 4,170.75
Dow futures ( YM=F ) : -2 points (-0.01%) to 33,031.00
Nasdaq futures (NQ=F): +22.75 points (+0.17%) to 13,110.25
NEW YORK, NEW YORK - APRIL 28: Traders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) on April 28, 2022 in New York City. The Dow Jones Industrial Average was up in morning trading as markets continued to move through a period of volatility over inflation concerns and the war in Ukraine. (Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images)
—
Emily McCormick is a reporter for Yahoo Finance. Follow her on Twitter.
Read the latest financial and business news from Yahoo Finance
Follow Yahoo Finance on Twitter, Instagram, YouTube, Facebook, Flipboard, and LinkedIn


MSCI's index of developing world shares deepened losses in its third straight session of declines, down 0.6%. Indian shares posted their worst session in two months, while the 10-year benchmark bond yield jumped to 7.41%, its highest level since May 2019, after the Reserve Bank of India hiked the key interest rate by 40 basis points in an off-cycle meeting to rein in inflation.
Indian shares slumped 2.3% and yields on the benchmark 10-year bond jumped after a surprise interest rate hike which came just hours ahead of a much-awaited monetary policy decision by the U.S. Federal Reserve.
Emerging markets shares were already jittery ahead of the Fed decision as investors look for clues on its thinking about the future pace of hikes, with a 50 basis point increase already priced in. MSCI's index of developing world shares deepened losses in its third straight session of declines, down 0.6%.
Indian shares posted their worst session in two months, while the 10-year benchmark bond yield jumped to 7.41%, its highest level since May 2019, after the Reserve Bank of India hiked the key interest rate by 40 basis points in an off-cycle meeting to rein in inflation. The rupee briefly hit 76.18 a dollar, before trading back at levels before the decision. It was last at 76.34.
"Looking ahead, further rate hikes look nailed on. After all, the rise in headline inflation (in India) has further to run... We now expect the repo rate to end this year at 5.65%," said Shilan Shah, senior India economist at Capital Economics. The impact on the equity market is likely to be negative in the short term, said Sujan Hajra, chief economist at Anand Rathi Securities.
Further curbing risk appetite, the European Union proposed a phased oil embargo on Russia in its sixth sanctions package over Moscow's invasion of Ukraine. The proposal also included sanctions on Russia's top bank and banning its broadcasters from European airwaves. But Russia's rouble jumped to around two-year highs against both the dollar and the euro, supported by strong capital controls. The offshore rouble was at around 66 to the dollar. In Moscow it was at around 68, recovering sharply over two months from its all-time low of 121 per dollar hit in March.
With more sanctions against Russian oil spurring global crude prices, oil-importing countries such as India, the Philippines, and Turkey face more pain. In more central bank news, Pakistan named Murtaza Syed, a deputy governor of the bank as its new chief as the country restarts talks with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) on a stalled $6 billion program.
Syed will take over upon the expiry of the three-year term of incumbent Reza Baqir, Finance Minister Miftah Ismail said on Wednesday. Pakistan markets were closed for Eid-ul-Fitr.
For GRAPHIC on emerging market FX performance in 2022, see http://tmsnrt.rs/2egbfVh For GRAPHIC on MSCI emerging index performance in 2022, see https://tmsnrt.rs/2OusNdX For TOP NEWS across emerging markets
For CENTRAL EUROPE market report, see For TURKISH market report, see
For the RUSSIAN market report, see


The Federal Reserve on Wednesday will conclude a two-day policy meeting and is expected to move against surging inflation -- including possibly making its highest interest rate hike in decades.
1/5
American flags hang outside the New York Stock Exchange on Wall Street in New York City. The policy meeting on Wednesday is expected to deliver the Fed's biggest blow yet against rising inflation in the United States. File Photo by John Angelillo/UPI | License Photo
May 4 (UPI) -- The Federal Reserve on Wednesday will conclude a two-day policy meeting and is expected to move against surging inflation -- including possibly making its highest interest rate hike in decades. The Fed last met in the middle of March when it raised rates by a quarter-point. It was the first time it raised the federal funds rate since 2018 and followed two years of rate decreases and emergency actions to counter the COVID-19 pandemic. Advertisement
At the end of its meeting Wednesday, the Federal Open Markets Committee is expected by many analysts to order a rate hike of a half-point -- which would be its largest single hike in 22 years.
Many investors have said they also expect the Fed to make similar rate increases at each of its next three policy meetings -- in June, July and September.
Advertisement
The move would be the Fed's biggest punch yet against inflation, which rose over the 12 months ending in March by close to 7% -- the steepest clip since 1982.
Last week, the Commerce Department reported that the Personal Consumption Expenditures price index -- a top indicator of inflation -- rose by 6.6% and gross domestic product -- the total output of all goods and services -- shrank unexpectedly by 1.4% when most economists expected modest growth of about 1%.
The Federal Reserve's target range -- the clip by which it prefers to see inflation rise on an annual basis -- is 2%. The gauge in March indicated an inflationary surge at more than three times that rate.
Further, high demand has outpaced what businesses are able to deliver as some employers struggling to find enough workers to operate at normal efficiency.
The Labor Department said on Tuesday that job openings by the end of March reached 11.5 million -- a record -- against about 6.3 million separations. That means there are roughly two open positions for every unemployed adult in the United States.
Advertisement
In addition to hiking interest rates, the Fed is also expected to announce the start of a program to wind down its $9 trillion balance sheet by $95 billion per month, beginning in June.
Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell said this week that the central bank is aiming for what economists call a "soft landing" as it seeks to raise interest rates to discourage spending enough to lower inflation without triggering a recession.
"That's our goal," he said. "I don't think you'll hear anyone at the Fed say that's going to be straightforward or easy."
In order to achieve this, Fed policymakers said at the March meeting that rates would need to rise nearly 2 points this year and even more in 2023. That would require the central bank to hike rates aggressively to start and then monitor the performance of the economy and adjust the pace of increases accordingly, Powell said at the International Monetary Fund forum last month.
"It is appropriate in my view to be moving a little more quickly," he said. "I also think there's something in the idea of a front-end loading whatever accommodation one thinks is appropriate."
Advertisement
While most expect a half-point increase Wednesday, economists at JPMorgan say there's a 20% chance that the Fed will go for a three-quarter-point hike, but the market did not price in that possibility heading into the meeting.
"It seems like they're dead set on hiking rates enough to kill inflation," Jim Caron, chief fixed income strategist on the global fixed income team at Morgan Stanley Investment Management, said according to CNBC. "But that's the real debate.
"Are they trying to get target inflation by 2024? If they are, the wage inflation is pretty high and that will require even more tightening than the Fed is projecting."
One thing seems certain -- the Fed will hike rates on Wednesday by some measure. Leaving them unchanged wouldn't do anything to address riding prices in the United States, which President Joe Biden has promised to get control of.
One of the primary drivers of inflation over the past year has been the rising cost of gas. AAA on Wednesday listed a national average of $4.23, which is 2 cents higher than it was Tuesday and about 10 cents higher than a week ago.
Advertisement
For a time in recent weeks, prices at the pump were going down -- the result of improving market conditions and policy actions by President Joe Biden. The ongoing war in Ukraine, and the U.S. embargo of Russian oil, and the onset of the busier summer driving season are causing prices to tick back up.
Rising rates, which would make it more expensive for Americans to take out a loan or carry a balance on a credit card, also raises the interest on buying a home.
Last month, Freddie Mac said that rates for a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage hit an average of more than 5% -- nearly 2% above from where they were a year ago. Home purchases have slowed across the country due to rising mortgage rates, limited inventory and in anticipation of the Fed's rate hike Wednesday.
As a result of the fluid market conditions, sales of existing homes have declined by close to 3%, the National Association of Realtors said according to the most recent data available.
However, in some of the nation's fastest-growing markets, such as New York's Hudson Valley, realtors have reported steady sales.
"In the past two months, interest rates have gone from 3.5% to 5.5%, which is a dramatic increase, and I don't see that that's affecting competition at all," Ryan Basten, a broker associate in Ulster County, N.Y., told The Washington Post. "If it gets to 6, 7 or 8%, then people may have a knee-jerk reaction to that, but I haven't seen it yet."
Advertisement
Biden is scheduled to make remarks about the Fed's decision on Wednesday afternoon. He will deliver the remarks in the Roosevelt Room of the White House at 2 p.m. EDT, which is the same time the Fed's rate hike will be announced.


The Federal Reserve is attempting to get a handle on the worst inflation America has seen in 40 years.
New York (CNN Business) The Federal Reserve said Wednesday it is raising interest rates by a half-percentage point to get a handle on the worst inflation America has seen in 40 years.
It's the first time in 22 years that the central bank has hiked rates this much.
In March, it ramped up its benchmark borrowing rate for the first time since late 2018, increasing it by a quarter-percentage point.
The central bank cited high inflation, as well as the strong labor market in its post-meeting statement.
Americans are struggling with rising costs everywhere from the grocery store to the gas pump. And with the Russia-Ukraine conflict still raging, price pressures on food and energy are unlikely to abate any time soon.
Read More


Digital assets remain under pressure as the crypto market awaits an interest-rate decision from the Federal Reserve.
Bitcoin prices rose Wednesday but cryptocurrencies remained under pressure, with the largest digital assets trading on the lower end of their recent ranges ahead of a hotly anticipated decision on interest rates from the Federal Reserve.
The price of Bitcoin was up 1% over the past 24 hours to above $38,900, bouncing higher from a recent low around $37,700. The leading digital asset had fallen four out of the past five days as of Tuesday and was trading on the lower end of its recent range around $40,000. Bitcoin changed...


The Federal Reserve’s expected interest-rate increase on Wednesday will likely make it more difficult for troubled companies to refinance debt as a long period of ultralow rates comes to a close.
The Federal Reserve’s expected interest-rate increase on Wednesday will likely make it more difficult for troubled companies to refinance debt as a long period of ultralow rates comes to a close.
Borrowing costs for many junk-rated companies are poised to follow rates higher, which is expected to cause a modest uptick in credit defaults—as well as in potential opportunities for distressed-debt investors. Corporate defaults and bankruptcies have hovered near their lowest rates in decades, the result of near-zero interest rates...


While the Federal Reserve will certainly step up its rate rise campaign Wednesday, analysts don’t expect the central bank to really swing hard at surging inflation with a three quarter percentage point interest rate increase, and anticipate the Fed will try to tamp down on speculation of such a move at future policy meetings.
While the Federal Reserve will certainly step up its rate rise campaign Wednesday, analysts don’t expect the central bank to really swing hard at surging inflation with a three quarter percentage point interest rate increase, and anticipate the Fed will try to tamp down on speculation of such a move at future policy meetings.
For now, there is a broad consensus among forecasters that this week’s Federal Open Market Committee meeting will conclude with a half percentage point increase to the federal-funds target rate range to between 0.75% and 1%. The Fed is also nearly certain to announce a plan to shrink its $9 trillion balance sheet, as part of a two-pronged effort to lower levels of inflation that all of the central bank’s officials consider unacceptably high.


Arvind Krishna, who is Arvind Krishna, Arvind Krishna latest news, Arvind Krishna IBM CEO, Arvind Krishna IBM, Arvind Krishna Twitter, Arvind Krishna Federal Reserve Bank, Arvind Krishna age, Arvind Krishna family, Arvind Krishna net worth, Arvind Krishna photo, Arvind Krishna New York, Arvind Krish
Follow us on Image Source : ANI Arvind Krishna, IBM chairman, elected to Board of Directors of Federal Reserve Bank of New York
Highlights The Federal Reserve Bank of New York works within the Federal Reserve System
It works to foster the safety, soundness and vitality of US economic and financial systems
It is one of 12 regional Reserve Banks which make up the Federal Reserve System
IBM Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Arvind Krishna has been elected to the Board of Directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
The Federal Reserve Bank of New York on Monday announced that 60-year-old Krishna has been elected as a Class B director, "representing the public with due but not exclusive consideration to the interests of agriculture, commerce, industry, services, labour, and consumers."
The New York Fed said in a statement that Krishna will fill the vacancy in the office for the remaining portion of a three-year term ending December 31, 2023.
"In his current and former roles, Krishna has led the building and expansion of new markets for IBM in the cloud, artificial intelligence, blockchain, and quantum computing. He has also played a significant role in the development of innovative IBM products and solutions based on these emerging technologies," the statement added.
Krishna, who has an undergraduate degree from the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur and a PhD from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, previously was senior vice president of Cloud and Cognitive Software. He also headed IBM Research and was the general manager of IBM Systems and Technology Group's development and manufacturing organisation.
The Federal Reserve Bank of New York works within the Federal Reserve System and with other public and private sector institutions to foster the safety, soundness and vitality of US economic and financial systems. It is one of 12 regional Reserve Banks which, together with the Board of Governors in Washington, D.C., make up the Federal Reserve System.
The Fed, as the system is commonly called, is an independent governmental entity created by Congress in 1913 to serve as the central bank of the United States.
The Federal Reserve Act of 1913 requires each of the Reserve Banks to operate under the supervision of a board of directors. Each Reserve Bank has nine directors who represent the interests of their Reserve District and whose experience provides the Reserve Banks with a wider range of expertise that helps them fulfill their policy and operational responsibilities, the statement said.
The nine directors of each Reserve Bank are divided evenly by classification: three Class A directors represent the member banks in the district; three Class B directors and Class C directors each represent the interests of the public, it said.
The directors of the Reserve Banks act as an important link between the Federal Reserve and the private sector, ensuring that the Fed's decisions on monetary policy are informed by actual economic conditions, it added.
The New York Fed oversees the Second Federal Reserve District, which includes New York state, the 12 northern counties of New Jersey, Fairfield County in Connecticut, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands.
Though it serves a geographically small area compared with those of other Federal Reserve Banks, the New York Fed is the largest Reserve Bank in terms of assets and volume of activity, according to information on the Fed's website.
(Except for the headline, Indiatvnews.com has not edited the copy)
Also Read | IBM suspends business in Russia; says 'providing critical support to impacted areas'
Latest Business News


The 10-year U.S. Treasury yield traded at 2.97% on Wednesday morning, with investors anticipating a big Federal Reserve interest rate decision later in the day.
The 10-year U.S. Treasury yield traded at 2.96% on Wednesday morning, slightly off its 3% high, with investors anticipating a big Federal Reserve interest rate decision later in the day. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose less than a basis point to 2.9656% at 4:15 a.m. ET. The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond was relatively flat, trading at 3.0079%.Yields move inversely to prices and 1 basis point is equal to 0.01%.
Treasurys
The 10-year rate crossed the 3% mark on Monday, its highest point since late 2018. The benchmark yield has since eased back, though it remains high. Respondents to the May CNBC Fed Survey expect the U.S. central bank to announce on Wednesday that it will be hiking interest rates by half a percentage point. Nearly three-fifths of respondents also believed that the Fed's aggressive tightening of monetary policy would end in a recession. The Federal Open Market Committee is due to release its policy decision statement at 2 p.m. on Wednesday, with Fed Chairman Jerome Powell then scheduled to hold a press conference at 2:30 p.m. ET. Sunil Krishnan, head of multi-asset funds at Aviva Investors, told CNBC's "Squawk Box Europe" on Wednesday that there's a possibility of four 50-basis-point interest rate hikes over the next four central bank meetings. While the size of these hikes might not seem that small in the context of recent history, Krishnan said "by the standards of longer history, we think it is something the U.S. can manage."
Ahead of the rate decision, the ADP April Employment Change report is set to come out at 8:15 a.m. ET. March's import and export data is then due out at 8:30 a.m. ET. S&P Global's April purchasing managers' index is scheduled for release at 9:45 a.m. ET, while ISM's April non-manufacturing PMI is due out at 10 a.m. ET. The Russia-Ukraine war also remains a focus for investors, with the European Union having announced plans to sanction Russian oil imports on Wednesday. U.S. President Joe Biden on Tuesday pressed Congress to pass his massive $33 billion Ukraine aid package during a visit to a Lockheed Martin plant in Alabama that manufactures Javelin anti-tank missiles. An auction is scheduled to be held on Wednesday for $30 billion for 119-day bills.


The British pound was little changed on Wednesday, near its lowest level in 21 months, ahead of central bank meetings at the Federal Reserve and Bank of England (BoE).
The British pound was little changed on Wednesday, near its lowest level in 21 months, ahead of central bank meetings at the Federal Reserve and Bank of England (BoE). The BoE policy announcement on Thursday will be the key event for sterling this week, with policymakers expected to raise interest rates for the fourth consecutive meeting, the first such run since 1997.
The pound has weakened in recent weeks on expectations that the BoE may have to slow the pace of tightening as the central bank battles with above-target inflation and a cost-of-living crisis that is showing signs of weighing on economic activity. Shop prices in Britain surged last month at the fastest rate in more than a decade, according to a survey published on Wednesday that spelt further bad news for many households caught in the worsening crisis.
The Fed meanwhile is expected to hike rates by 50 basis points on Wednesday, the first half-percentage point hike in over two decades. "The worst scenario would be a hawkish FOMC meeting, with still-cautious BoE policy guidance," writes OANDA senior market analyst Jeffrey Halley.
"That likely sees GBP/USD testing 1.2200." At 0812 GMT, sterling was up 0.1% against the U.S. dollar at $1.2508, after hitting its lowest level since July 2020 at $1.2412 last week.
Against the euro, the pound was little changed at 84.12 pence. Sterling traders will also be closely watching local elections on Thursday, with Prime Minister Boris Johnson's Conservative party looking set to suffer losses in London and the north of England.
(This story has not been edited by Devdiscourse staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)


European stock markets are off to a slow start as most investors are preparing for a US interest rate rise when the Federal Reserve meets later today.
The focus of global stock markets is on US Federal Reserve chairman Jerome Powell ahead of the biggest hike in US interest rates in over two decades. Photo:Tom Williams/Reuters
European stock markets are off to a slow start as most investors are preparing for a US interest rate rise when the Federal Reserve meets later today.
The FTSE 100 (^FTSE) dipped marginally 0.3% to 7,532.95 after opening, while the CAC (^FCHI) shed 0.1% in Paris. In Germany, the DAX (^GDAXI) was down 0.1%.
The London benchmark was dragged down by mining stocks. Rio Tinto (RIO.L) lost over 3% and Anglo American (AAL.L) fell 1.5% after being downgraded by brokers at Liberum. Glencore (GLNCY) also lost ground, falling 1.9% in early trading.
UK investors also have the prospect of a rate rise from the Bank of England tomorrow, with the consensus being that the central bank will raise the interest rate to 1%.
Read more: Bank of England set to hike interest rates to 1% to rein in inflation
HSBC (HSBA.L) gained 0.9%, after it kicked off its planned $1bn share buyback.
Flutter (FLTR.L) jumped to the top of the FTSE 100 despite revealing a £30m hit from safer gambling laws and a slowdown in online betting revenues.
Online fashion retailer Boohoo (BOO.L) dropped 11.6%, as it reported a 28% fall in annual core earnings that reflected significant freight and logistics cost inflation and warned that pandemic-related external factors would continue to impact it this year.
Still, traders are mostly keeping to the sidelines ahead of the US Federal Reserve’s rate decision. The central bank is expected to hike rates by 50 basis points for the first time since the year 2000.
CMC Markets analyst Michael Hewson, in a note, said that a 50 basis point rate rise today would be of no surprise to most in the market, taking the Fed interest rate to 1%.
“This is the least of market expectations, when it comes to what the Fed may well announce today, with an outside chance we might get some members push for a 75bps hike,” the analyst said in a note. “The biggest question will be around the pace of its balance sheet reduction program along with the pace of subsequent rate hikes, with the potential for another 50bps hike to come in June,”
Story continues
He added: “Powell’s comments at the IMF, that the Fed could well go much harder, and a lot quicker on rate hikes has prompted concern that the Fed may well overplay its hand at a time when the global economy looks set for a sustained slowdown, as China continues to lose its battle with COVID.”
Read more: Bumper pay growth in finance fuels earnings inequality in UK
S&P 500 futures (ES=F) were up 0.2% and Dow futures (YM=F) gained 0.1%. Nasdaq futures (NQ=F) were 0. 1% higher as trade began in Europe.
Negative signs from Asian as Hong Kong's Hang Seng (^HSI) fell 1.1%. The Nikkei 225 (^N225) in Tokyo and the Shanghai Composite (000001.SS) are closed for a holiday.
Meanwhile, oil prices pushed higher as the EU outlined plans to phased out imports of Russian crude over the next six months. Brent crude (BZ=F) was trading at $108 a barrel this Wednesday morning.
The ban will cover all Russian oil, seaborne and pipeline, crude and refined, European commission president Ursula von der Leyen said on Wednesday.
She vowed to phase out the supplies in an “orderly fashion”, hitting crude oil within six months and refined products by the end of the year.
Across the pond, the market finished in the green. The S&P 500 (^GSPC) closed 0.4% higher and the tech-heavy Nasdaq (^IXIC) advanced 0.2%. The Dow Jones (^DJI) also made gains, closing 0.2% higher on Tuesday.
Watch: How does inflation affect interest rates?


The focus of global stock markets is on the Federal Reserve ahead of the biggest hike in US interest rates in over two decades.
Oil price up 2.5%, Admiral and Direct Line shares skid
Brent crude futures are 2.5% higher at $107.66 a barrel as traders react to European moves to ban Russian oil over the next six months and refined fuels by the end of 2022.
The latest sanctions proposed this morning by European Commission president Ursula von der Leyen have added to the industry’s wider supply concerns following figures yesterday showing a surprise drawdown in US inventories.
BP and Shell shares rose 0.5% following Brent’s rise but the FTSE 100 index weakened 22.64 points to 7538.69 in lacklustre trading ahead of tonight’s US Federal Reserve announcement.
Gambling business Flutter Entertainment was the biggest riser, lifting 4% or 360p to 8650p as the Paddy Power owner reported a strong first three months of the year for its US business FanDuel. Shares in rival Entain were boosted 43p to 1535p.
Car insurer Admiral was at the top of fallers board after rival Direct Line Insurance said its motor new business premiums increased by mid-single digits early in January and were flat through the rest of the quarter.
It added: “Across the market, we do not believe this adequately covers the level of claims inflation experienced over the last 18 months.”
Direct Line shares fell 7% or 17.5p to 238p in the FTSE 250 and Admiral dropped 5% or 118p to 2443p.
The FTSE 250 index eased 93.54 points to 20,427.22, although Aston Martin Lagonda shares rose 3% or 26.8p to 872.4p after its first quarter results and change of chief executive.


