Stocks closed with modest losses on Wednesday, well off their intraday highs, after the Federal Reserve cut interest rates by 50 basis points, the high side of estimates for its first cut in more than four years.
Stocks closed with modest losses on Wednesday, well off their intraday highs, after the Federal Reserve cut interest rates by 50 basis points, the high side of estimates for its first cut in more than four years.
After surging as much as 375 points to an all-time high after the Fed announcement, the Dow turned negative in late trading as investors digested Fed Chair Jerome Powell’s comments. The blue chip index dropped 103.08 points, or 0.3%, to 41,503.10. It hit an intraday record of 41,981.97.
The S&P 500, which also hit an all-time high, and the Nasdaq finished in the red.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average hit an all-time high after the 2 p.m. Fed announcement but fell in late trading. AP
Trading was choppy. Prior to the announcement, the S&P 500 oscillated between modest gains and losses. The benchmark index rose as much as 1% after the announcement before paring gains and finally closing lower.
Citing a “greater confidence” that inflation was moving toward the central bank’s 2% target, the Fed cut rates by half a percentage point, as it now focuses on keeping the labor market healthy.
“The Fed ended the pause with a bang. It’s a strong signal that they cut by 50 basis points and expect another 50 basis points of cuts this year,” said Brian Jacobsen, chief economist at Annex Wealth Management in Menomonee Falls, Wis.
“The Fed is projecting that by front loading the cuts they can stick the landing with the unemployment rate at 4.4% and inflation dropping to target quickly.”
Market expectations for the size of the rate cut had been volatile in recent days, pricing in about a 65% chance for a 25 basis point cut last week to a 57% chance for the larger 50 basis point cut earlier on Wednesday, according to CME’s FedWatch Tool.
Markets are now fully pricing in a cut of at least 25 basis points at the Fed’s November meeting, with a roughly 35% chance for another 50 basis point cut.
Jerome Powell’s Fed cut rates by a half-percentage point. Getty Images
“It’s amazing to me how even when markets get what they seemingly want, they immediately want more,” said Steve Sosnick, chief market strategist at Interactive Brokers in Greenwich, Connecticut.
“It’s important to note that stocks are not rocketing ahead (at least not yet) after getting what they wanted. After 7 straight up days, a lot of good news was priced in.”
Borrowing costs had been parked at their highest levels in over two decades since July 2023, when the central bank last hiked interest rates by 25 basis points to between 5.25% and 5.50% to combat inflation.
After the rate cut announcement, Fed Chair Jerome Powell said the central bank’s forecast for the path of interest rates did not imply the need for urgent action.
Small cap stocks, seen as more likely to benefit from a lower interest rate environment, moved higher, with the Russell 2000 outperforming its large cap brethren. Regional banks, some of which had been stressed by higher interest rates, also gained ground, with the KBW Regional bank index .KRX closing with solid gains.
Markets have rallied this year, with all three major indexes setting record highs on prospects of lower interest rates as inflation moderated and the jobs market showed gradual signs of cooling. The Dow and S&P 500 hit intraday highs on Wednesday.
Intuitive Machines surged 38% to $7.47 after clinching a $4.8 billion navigation services contract from NASA.


US central bank’s decision marks a milestone in its two-year fight against inflation
Federal Reserve chairman Jerome Powell: US central bank signals more interest rate reductions to come after a half-point cut. Photograph: Andrew Harnik/Getty Images
The Federal Reserve cut its benchmark interest rate by half a percentage point on Wednesday and signalled more reductions would follow, launching its first easing cycle since the onset of the pandemic.
The US central bank’s first cut in more than four years leaves the federal funds rate at a range of 4.75 per cent to 5 per cent. Michelle Bowman, a governor on the Federal Open Market Committee, voted against the decision, favouring a quarter-point reduction.
The half-point cut is larger than the Fed’s more customary quarter-point pace and suggests the US central bank is concerned about the prospects of a weakening economy after more than a year of holding rates at a 23-year high.
The last time the Fed cut rates by more than a quarter point was when Covid-19 tore across the global economy in 2020.
READ MORE
[ Jay Powell faces milestone decision on US rate cutsOpens in new window ]
In a policy statement on Wednesday, the committee said it had gained “greater confidence” about inflation, even though it remained “somewhat elevated”.
Amid slowing job gains and a higher unemployment rate, officials noted the risks to achieving their price stability goal while also maintaining a healthy labour market were “roughly in balance”.
US stocks rallied immediately after the announcement. The S&P500, which was steady earlier in the day, jumped as much as 0.9 per cent, surpassing the intraday record high it briefly hit on Tuesday. Treasury yields fluctuated between gains and losses after a mild sell-off before the announcement.
In the latest “dot plot” of officials’ forecasts, most expected the policy rate would fall to 4.25 per cent to 4.5 per cent by the end of 2024, suggesting another large half-point reduction at either of the two remaining meetings this year or two quarter-point reductions. Overall, that is a significantly larger reduction than the quarter-point reduction projected by most officials in June, when the dot plot was last updated.
Two of the 19 officials who pencilled in estimates thought the Fed should hold off after Wednesday’s reduction, while another seven forecast only one more quarter-point cut this year.
[ Federal Reserve wrestles with how aggressively to cut US interest ratesOpens in new window ]
Policymakers also expected the funds rate to fall another percentage point in 2025, ending the year between 3.25 per cent and 3.5 per cent. By the end of 2026, it was estimated to fall just below 3 per cent.
In considering additional cuts, the committee said it would “carefully assess incoming data, the evolving outlook and the balance of risks”.
Wednesday’s decision is a milestone for the central bank after more than two years battling inflation – and a significant moment in this year’s presidential election.
Falling borrowing costs will be a boon for Democratic candidate Kamala Harris, whose campaign has been dogged by voter disquiet over high living costs even as the US economy has boomed.
The cut comes as Fed officials grow more confident that inflation is under control and turn their focus to the health of the labour market.
After peaking in 2022 at about 7 per cent, the personal consumption expenditures price index was just 2.5 per cent in July, closer to the Fed’s 2 per cent target.
[ European shares close lower prior to Fed rates decisionOpens in new window ]
But jobs growth has cooled in recent months and other measures of demand, such as vacancies, have also slowed, even though the number of Americans filing for unemployment benefits remains historically low.
While the Fed has made clear it does not want to see further labour market weakening, it is also concerned about moving too slowly in loosening its grip on the economy by lowering borrowing costs.
In projections released on Wednesday, most officials forecast the unemployment rate to peak at 4.4 per cent over the next two years, up from its current level of 4.2 per cent and higher than June’s estimates, while economic growth stabilises at a 2 per cent rate over the next several years.
Officials also forecast a more benign inflation backdrop, with the personal consumption expenditures price index falling back to target in 2026. The median estimate for “core” inflation, which strips out volatile food and energy prices, was revised lower to 2.6 per cent for this year, before falling to 2.2 per cent and 2 per cent over the next two years. – Copyright The Financial Times Limited 2024


The rate cut, the Fed’s first in more than four years, reflects its new focus on bolstering the job market, which has shown clear signs of slowing.
The Fed’s policymakers also signaled that they expect to cut their key rate by an additional half-point in their final two meetings this year, in November and December. And they envision four more rate cuts in 2025 and two in 2026.
The Federal Reserve on Wednesday cut its benchmark interest rate by an unusually large half-point, a dramatic shift after more than two years of high rates helped tame inflation but that also made borrowing painfully expensive for American consumers.
The rate cut, the Fed’s first in more than four years, reflects its new focus on bolstering the job market, which has shown clear signs of slowing. Coming just weeks before the presidential election, the Fed’s move also has the potential to scramble the economic landscape just as Americans prepare to vote.


Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell announced a 0.5% cut in interest rates -- the first reduction in four years.
The Federal Reserve slashed its key lending rate by half a percentage point — the high end of expectations on Wall Street — in a bet that the wobbly jobs market has become a bigger risk to the economy than inflation.
But Fed Chair Jerome Powell said that economic observers should not assume that the half-point reduction “is the new pace” of further cuts.
3 Fed Chair Jerome Powell on Wednesday announced the first interest rate cuts in years. AFP via Getty Images
“We’ve waited, and I think that that patience has really paid dividends in the form of our confidence that inflation is moving sustainably under 2%, so I think that is what enables us to take this strong move today,” Powell told reporters on Wednesday.
“I do not think that anyone should look at this and say, ‘Oh, this is the new pace.’”
The Dow initially surged as much as 375 points to an all-time high after the Fed announcement of a jumbo cut, but turned negative in late trading as investors digested Powell’s comments. The blue-chip index dropped 103.08 points, or 0.3%, to 41,503.10.
The S&P 500, which also hit an all-time high, and the Nasdaq finished in the red.
With inflation barely above target levels, Fed officials have been shifting their focus toward supporting a weakening job market and achieving a rare “soft landing,” curbing inflation without causing a recession.
“The committee has gained greater confidence that inflation is moving sustainably toward 2%, and judges that the risks to achieving its employment and inflation goals are roughly in balance,” the US central bank’s rate-setting committee said in a joint statement, which drew a dissent from Governor Michelle Bowman who favored only a quarter-point cut.
White House press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre called the rate cut — less than 50 days before the election — a “moment of progress.”
“Now, prices are going to go down — if you think about being able to buy a home. And these are important, important items for the American people. And so that’s how we see this,” she said.
3 Lawmakers including Sen. Elizabeth Warren have been lobbying the Fed for steeper interest rate cuts. REUTERS
Donald Trump said Wednesday “it was a big cut.”
“To cut it by that much, assuming they’re not just playing politics, the economy would be very bad,” Trump told reporters.
The Republican presidential nominee and his aides have argued that a cut benefits Vice President Kamala Harris’ campaign by convincing people that the economy is strong and by reducing concerns over inflation.
Powell, who nominated to the Fed board by President Barack Obama and elevated to chair by Trump, denied any partisanship.
“This is my fourth presidential election at the Fed and it’s always the same,” Powell said. “We’re always going into this meeting in particular and asking what’s the right thing to do for the people we serve.”
Policymakers see the Fed’s benchmark rate falling by another half point by the end of this year and another full point in 2025. The Fed said it aims to cut by a final half point in 2026 to end in a 2.75%-3.00% range — considered a “neutral” stance that neither encourages nor discourages economic activity.
Even though inflation “remains somewhat elevated,” the Fed statement said policymakers chose to cut the overnight rate to the 4.75%-5.00% range “in light of the progress on inflation and the balance of risks.”
3 Traders on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange were eagerly waiting to see how steep the cut would be. Getty Images
High interest rates and elevated prices for everything from groceries to gas to rent have fanned widespread public disillusionment with the economy and provided a line of attack for Trump’s campaign.
Harris, in turn, has charged that Trump’s promise to slap tariffs on all imports would raise prices for consumers much further.
Over time, Fed rate cuts should lower borrowing costs for mortgages, auto loans and credit cards, as well as for business loans.
Business spending could grow, and so could stock prices. Companies and consumers could refinance loans into lower-rate debt.
Powell made clear last month in a high-profile speech that Fed officials feel confident that inflation has largely been defeated.
It has plummeted from a peak of 9.1% in June 2022 to 2.5% last month, not far above the Fed’s 2% target.
Central bank officials fought against spiking prices by raising their key interest rate 11 times in 2022 and 2023 to a two-decade high of 5.3% to try to slow borrowing and spending, ultimately cooling the economy.
With Post Wires


The Federal Reserve has made its first rate cut in 14 months, with more expected in 2024. Here are the smart money moves to consider.
After more than a year of keeping the federal funds rate steady, the Fed on Wednesday made a much-anticipated cut of 50 basis points — or half a percentage point. The adjustment, announced by the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) at the end of its two-day meeting on Wednesday, lowers the target range to between 4.75% and 5.0%. The FOMC sets monetary policy by adjusting the federal funds rate, which influences the interest banks charge for credit cards, mortgages and other financial products, as well as annual percentage yields savers earn on deposit accounts. The rate reduction is more than the 25 base points some experts had predicted, and more are likely coming. Here are some financial moves to consider in the new economic landscape. Smart money moves to consider Mortgages
Credit cards
Student loans
Car loans
Savings
Investments
FAQs
Mortgages
If you bought a house in the past few years and are saddled with a high mortgage rate, this rate-cutting cycle could be the right time to refinance, according to Joe Bogardus, a financial services executive with Barnum Financial Group.
"If you plan on staying in your home for a while, you might think about refinancing once mortgage rates drop another half-percent or percent," he said.
Refinancing comes with costs, he advises, so make sure the savings you get from lowering your rate is more than what you'll pay in lender fees and closing costs. If you want to convert your home equity into cash, Rocket Mortgage is our pick for cash-out refinancing. While most lenders cap cash-out refinances at 80% to 90% of your home equity, Rocket approves qualified borrowers at 100% equity. And its average closing time for refinance mortgages is just 21 days, nearly half the national average.
Rocket Mortgage Refinance Learn More Annual Percentage Rate (APR) Apply online for personalized rates
Types of loans Conventional loans, FHA loans, VA Interest Rate Reduction Refinance Loan (IRRRL) and jumbo loans
Fixed-rate Terms 8 – 29 years
Adjustable-rate Terms Not disclosed
Credit needed 580 if opting for FHA loan refinance or VA IRRRL; 620 for a conventional loan refinance Already have a mortgage through Rocket Mortgage or looking to start one? Check out the Rocket Visa Signature Card to learn how you can earn rewards
Credit cards
The good news is that credit card providers should start lowering the annual percentage rate (APR) they charge cardholders. But don't expect these rates to fall by much or very quickly. The Fed's last rate hike cycle, which stretched from March 2022 to July 2023, saw average APRs jump from 16.34% to over 20%. Consumers paying interest on their cards are now dealing with an average APR of 22.76%, according to the latest Federal Reserve data from July 2024. If you're among this group, a 0% intro APR balance transfer card could give you time to pay off your balance without additional interest. Qualifying balance transfers on the Wells Fargo Reflect® Card made within 120 days of account opening qualify for a 0% intro APR for 21 months. (After that a variable 17.74%, 24.24%, or 29.49% APR applies.)
Wells Fargo Reflect® Card Learn More On Wells Fargo's secure site Rewards None
Welcome bonus None
Annual fee $0
Intro APR 0% intro APR for 21 months from account opening on purchases and qualifying balance transfers.
Regular APR 17.74%, 24.24%, or 29.49% Variable APR
Balance transfer fee 5%, min: $5
Foreign transaction fee 3%
Credit needed Excellent/Good See rates and fees. Terms apply.
The Reflect card does have a balance transfer fee of 5% for each transfer, with a $5 minimum. And you'll need to prioritize paying off the card so you're not stuck with an even higher interest rate once the zero-interest period ends.
Student loans
Interest on some private student loans should start declining, as well. So the time could be right for refinancing them. "We had a whole generation of borrowers who enjoyed competitive rates," said Bogardus. "But if you took out private student loans in the last year or two, you might be stuck with a very high rate." If you have a variable-rate loan, your rate may drop automatically. But refinancing and converting to a fixed-rate loan can ensure you lock in that lower number if rates go up again. And if you already have a fixed-rate private student loan, refinancing can allow you to grab a lower rate. Private lenders look at credit scores and income to determine your rate when you refinance, so those with good credit will reap the most benefits from making this money move. Citizens doesn't charge application, origination or disbursement fees and it offers a 0.50% rate discount on refinanced loans if you automate payments.
Citizens™ Learn More Eligible borrowers Undergraduate and graduate students, parents
Loan amounts $150,000 maximum, or cost of attendance, whichever is lower
Loan terms Range from 5 to 15 years
Loan types Variable and fixed
Borrower protections Forbearance options available
Co-signer required? No
Offer student loan refinancing? Yes - click here for details Terms apply.
If you have federal student loans, though, Bogardus advises serious caution: Refinancing through a private lender means you'll lose government protections like forbearance, deferment and income-driven repayment plans. And if widespread student loan forgiveness ever becomes a reality, you likely won't be able to participate.
Car loans
The average auto loan interest rate in the second quarter of 2024 was 6.84% for a new car, according to Experian's State of the Automotive Finance Market report, and 12.01% for a used car. That's up from 6.73% and 11.91% respectively in the first quarter, but down from the 15-year highs they hit in 2023. As with most sectors, auto loan rates won't plummet now that the Fed has started cutting. But the timing might still be right to get that new ride. "We're starting to see prices come down, now that the supply has increased and manufacturing has picked up," Bogardus said. "Look for deals — historically, September to November is when new models come out, so dealerships are looking to unload leftover inventory." You might find better financing with dealerships, he added "because some manufacturers have an oversupply of certain models and have better discounts."
Savings
While borrowers largely benefit from the Fed cutting rates, savers will take a hit. High-yield savings accounts have been a go-to savings vehicle in recent years, with some offering returns well over 5%. Those yields will dwindle, Bogardus said, but not all at once. "If your goals are shorter-term — or you're using the account for something like an emergency fund — you'll most likely want to still keep that HYSA," he said. Rates for CDs will also drop in the next 10 to 12 months, he added, so now could be the right time to lock one in.
Investments
Bonds have an inverse relationship to interest rates, Bogardus said, so a rate-easing cycle is a good time to invest in them.
"It's possible to purchase bonds directly, but that requires understanding the individual credit risk involved," he added. "If you're not comfortable with that, it makes sense to be diversified in a bond fund." Brokerage firms like Charles Schwab and Fidelity specialize in bond investing and have a variety of taxable and tax-free bond funds available.
Charles Schwab Learn More Minimum deposit and balance Minimum deposit and balance requirements may vary depending on the investment vehicle selected. No account minimum for active investing through Schwab One ® Brokerage Account. Automated investing through Schwab Intelligent Portfolios ® requires a $5,000 minimum deposit
Fees Fees may vary depending on the investment vehicle selected. Schwab One ® Brokerage Account has no account fees, $0 commission fees for stock and ETF trades, $0 transaction fees for over 4,000 mutual funds and a $0.65 fee per options contract
Bonus None
Investment vehicles Robo-advisor: Schwab Intelligent Portfolios ® and Schwab Intelligent Portfolios Premium™ IRA: Charles Schwab Traditional, Roth, Rollover, Inherited and Custodial IRAs; plus, a Personal Choice Retirement Account ® (PCRA) Brokerage and trading: Schwab One ® Brokerage Account, Brokerage Account + Specialized Platforms and Support for Trading, Schwab Global Account™ and Schwab Organization Account
Investment options Stocks, bonds, mutual funds, CDs and ETFs
Educational resources Extensive retirement planning tools Terms apply.
Fidelity Investments Learn More Minimum deposit and balance Minimum deposit and balance requirements may vary depending on the investment vehicle selected. No minimum to open a Fidelity Go® account, but minimum $10 balance according to the investment strategy chosen
Fees Fees may vary depending on the investment vehicle selected. Zero commission fees for stock, ETF, options trades and some mutual funds; zero transaction fees for over 3,400 mutual funds; $0.65 per options contract. Fidelity Go® has no advisory fees for balances under $25,000 (0.35% per year for balances of $25,000 and over and this includes access to unlimited 1-on-1 coaching calls from a Fidelity advisor)
Bonus Find special offers here
Investment vehicles Robo-advisor: Fidelity Go® IRA: Traditional, Roth and Rollover IRAs Brokerage and trading: Fidelity Investments Trading Other: Fidelity Investments 529 College Savings; Fidelity HSA ®
Investment options Stocks, bonds, ETFs, mutual funds, CDs, options and fractional shares
Educational resources Extensive tools and industry-leading, in-depth research from 20-plus independent providers Terms apply.
"Each individual has their own risk tolerance and goals," Bogardus added. "You should speak with a licensed financial professional when trying to determine the proper investment strategy, especially if you're new to investing."
FAQ How much did the Fed cut rates? On Sept. 18, 2024, The Fed announced that it was cutting the federal funds rate by 50 basis points, or half a percentage point. That lowers the target rate to between 4.75% and 5.0%. When is the next Fed meeting? The Federal Open Market Committee has two more meetings in 2024, on November 6 and 7 and on December 17 and 18. What investments do best when interest rates are cut? Bonds have an inverse relationship to interest rates, so they're a good investment option in a lowering-interest-rate cycle. Short-term bonds (less than four years) carry less risk but will pay lower returns. Intermediate- (four to ten years) and long-term (over ten years) bonds tend to perform well during cutting cycles.
Subscribe to the CNBC Select Newsletter! Money matters — so make the most of it. Get expert tips, strategies, news and everything else you need to maximize your money, right to your inbox. Sign up here.
Meet our experts
At CNBC Select, we work with experts with specialized knowledge and authority based on relevant training and/or experience. For this story, we interviewed Joseph Bogardus, a financial services executive with Barnum Financial Group. Based in Connecticut, he is a designated Special Care Planner and college funding consultant, as well as a certified financial planner and an accredited investment fiduciary.
Why trust CNBC Select?
At CNBC Select, our mission is to provide our readers with high-quality service journalism and comprehensive consumer advice so they can make informed decisions with their money. Every personal finance article is based on rigorous reporting by our team of expert writers and editors with extensive knowledge of financial products. While CNBC Select earns a commission from affiliate partners on many offers and links, we create all our content without input from our commercial team or any outside third parties, and we pride ourselves on our journalistic standards and ethics. Catch up on CNBC Select's in-depth coverage of credit cards, banking and money, and follow us on TikTok, Facebook, Instagram and Twitter to stay up to date.
Editorial Note: Opinions, analyses, reviews or recommendations expressed in this article are those of the Select editorial staff’s alone, and have not been reviewed, approved or otherwise endorsed by any third party.


It marks a crucial milestone for the central bank’s historic inflation fight, which kept rates at a bruising 23-year high for more than a year.
By Christopher Rugaber | Associated Press
WASHINGTON — The Federal Reserve on Wednesday cut its benchmark interest rate by an unusually large half-point, a dramatic shift after more than two years of high rates helped tame inflation but that also made borrowing painfully expensive for American consumers.
The rate cut, the Fed’s first in more than four years, reflects its new focus on bolstering the job market, which has shown clear signs of slowing. Coming just weeks before the presidential election, the Fed’s move also has the potential to scramble the economic landscape just as Americans prepare to vote.
The central bank’s action lowered its key rate to roughly 4.8%, down from a two-decade high of 5.3%, where it had stood for 14 months as it struggled to curb the worst inflation streak in four decades. Inflation has tumbled from a peak of 9.1% in mid-2022 to a three-year low of 2.5% in August, not far above the Fed’s 2% target.
The Fed’s policymakers also signaled that they expect to cut their key rate by an additional half-point in their final two meetings this year, in November and December. And they envision four more rate cuts in 2025 and two in 2026.
In a statement, the Fed came closer than it has before to declaring victory over inflation: It said it “has gained greater confidence that inflation is moving sustainably toward 2%.”
Though the central bank now believes inflation is largely defeated, many Americans remain upset with still-high prices for groceries, gas, rent and other necessities. Former President Donald Trump blames the Biden-Harris administration for sparking an inflationary surge. Vice President Kamala Harris, in turn, has charged that Trump’s promise to slap tariffs on all imports would raise prices for consumers even further.
Rate cuts by the Fed should, over time, lower borrowing costs for mortgages, auto loans and credit cards, boosting Americans’ finances and supporting more spending and growth. Homeowners will be able to refinance mortgages at lower rates, saving on monthly payments, and even shift credit card debt to lower-cost personal loans or home equity lines. Businesses may also borrow and invest more.
Average mortgage rates have already dropped to an 18-month low of 6.2%, according to Freddie Mac, spurring a jump in demand for refinancings.
Related Articles National News | Biggest question from Kroger-Albertsons trials: What’s a grocery store?
Biggest question from Kroger-Albertsons trials: What’s a grocery store? National News | Study: Americans’ pay hasn’t fully recovered from inflation. Will it ever?
Study: Americans’ pay hasn’t fully recovered from inflation. Will it ever? National News | McDonald’s extends its $5 Meal Deal through the rest of the year
McDonald’s extends its $5 Meal Deal through the rest of the year National News | PG&E customers face monthly bill increase — a new one — in October
PG&E customers face monthly bill increase — a new one — in October National News | Who is the potential buyer of 63 Albertsons stores in California? The Fed’s next policy meeting is Nov. 6-7 — immediately after the presidential election. By cutting rates this week, soon before the election, the Fed is risking attacks from Trump, who has argued that lowering rates now amounts to political interference. Yet Politico has reported that even some key Senate Republicans who were interviewed have expressed support for a Fed rate cut this week.
The central bank’s officials fought against high inflation by raising their key rate 11 times in 2022 and 2023. Wage growth has since slowed, removing a potential source of inflationary pressure. And oil and gas prices are falling, a sign that inflation should continue to cool in the months ahead. Consumers are also pushing back against high prices, forcing such companies as Target and McDonald’s to dangle deals and discounts.
Yet after several years of strong job growth, employers have slowed hiring, and the unemployment rate has risen nearly a full percentage point from its half-century low in April 2023 to a still-low 4.2%. Once unemployment rises that much, it tends to keep climbing. Fed officials and many economists note, though, that the rise in unemployment this time largely reflects an influx of people seeking jobs — notably new immigrants and recent college graduates — rather than layoffs.
At issue in the Fed’s deliberations is how fast it wants to lower its benchmark rate to a point where it’s no longer acting as a brake on the economy — nor as an accelerant. Where that so-called “neutral” level falls isn’t clear, though many analysts peg it at 3% to 3.5%.


Inflation has fallen, and the labor market is still healthy. So why did the central bank act more aggressively than many had been expecting?
LOADING ERROR LOADING
The Federal Reserve raised eyebrows Wednesday with a bigger-than-expected cut in a key interest rate, portraying the move as essentially an insurance policy against a possibly slowing economy now that it believes inflation is under control.
But the action, which took many by surprise, also risks putting the independent central bank smack in the middle of the last stretch of the 2024 presidential race, as it will help keep the economic recovery touted by Democrats. But it could also be used by former President Donald Trump to support his gloomy statements about the economy.
Advertisement
“The labor market is actually in solid condition, and our intention with our policy move today is to keep it there. You can say that about the whole economy,” Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell told reporters at a press conference following a meeting of the Fed’s rate-setting committee.
“The U.S. economy is in good shape. It’s growing at a solid pace. Inflation is coming down. The labor market is in a strong pace. We want to keep it there. That’s what we’re doing.”
With its first rate cut since March 2020, the central bank decreased the rate at which banks lend to each other overnight from a range of 5.5% to 5.25% by a half-percentage point to 5% to 4.75%. Many Wall Street economists had been expecting a smaller quarter-point cut as the start of a small cycle of similar cuts in the coming months.
The size of the cut was not a total surprise to Wall Street. Bond traders had been looking to a half-point reduction last week before expectations fell back again closer to a quarter-point cut, according to Reuters.
Advertisement
Still, the cut puts an emphatic end to the Fed’s recent fight against inflation, which led it to raise rates from near zero to above 5% in 2022 and 2023, sparking fears of a recession. But the economy defied expectations in 2023 by continuing to grow robustly.
The Fed’s action Wednesday, though, may be seen as either trying to show it is as willing to pump up the economy as it was to slow it when inflation was high, or that the economy is weaker than widely believed.
But markets took the news mostly in stride. Major stock indexes ended the day close to unchanged, hinting that the move did not shake investors’ confidence in the economy.
The cut came after joblessness in August was reported at 4.2%, low by historical standards but up from the sub-3% rates seen from 2022 through early 2024. At the same time, inflation readings have been tame, which led the Fed policy panel to say that it had “greater confidence that inflation is moving sustainably toward 2 percent,” the central bank’s target.
Vice President Kamala Harris, Trump’s opponent in the White House race, praised the Fed’s move but said she remained focused on inflation.
Advertisement
“While this announcement is welcome news for Americans who have borne the brunt of high prices, my focus is on the work ahead to keep bringing prices down,” she said in a statement.
Rep. Brendan Boyle (D-Pa.) called the cut a win for working families.
“With inflation firmly in decline, the data supporting a rate cut has long been clear — and I’m glad the Federal Reserve has finally taken action to preserve our hard-fought economic recovery,” he said in a statement.
Trump, in an appearance Wednesday in New York City, reacted negatively to the news.
“The economy would be very bad or they’re playing politics, one or the other. But it was a big cut,” he said.
Support Free Journalism Consider supporting HuffPost starting at $2 to help us provide free, quality journalism that puts people first. Can't afford to contribute? Support HuffPost by creating a free account and log in while you read. Thank you for your past contribution to HuffPost. We are sincerely grateful for readers like you who help us ensure that we can keep our journalism free for everyone. The stakes are high this year, and our 2024 coverage could use continued support. Would you consider becoming a regular HuffPost contributor? Thank you for your past contribution to HuffPost. We are sincerely grateful for readers like you who help us ensure that we can keep our journalism free for everyone. The stakes are high this year, and our 2024 coverage could use continued support. We hope you'll consider contributing to HuffPost once more. Support HuffPost Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages.
Trump has said that he thinks the president should have a say in rate policy, even though the tradition of the Fed as an independent entity dates back to the 1950s. On Tuesday night, he said, “They’ll do the rate cut and all the political stuff tomorrow.”
Powell denied that politics entered into the rate decision, which was supported by 11 of the 12 members of the rate-setting committee, with one voting for a smaller cut.
Advertisement
“This is what we do. Our job is to support the economy on behalf of the American people,” Powell said.
“We don’t put up any other filters. I think if you start doing that, I don’t know where you stop. And so we just don’t do that.”


Central bank makes cuts after holding rates at two-decade high in aggressive bid to cool inflation
The US Federal Reserve cut interest rates on Wednesday for the first time in four years, stepping back from its aggressive bid to cool the world’s largest economy and reduce inflation.
America’s central bank, which lifted rates to a two-decade high after price growth surged to its highest level in a generation, announced a cut of 50 basis points.
Policymakers at the Fed also expect to cut rates by an additional 50 basis points this year, according to projections released alongside the news. Wall Street rose, with the S&P 500 up 0.5%.
Inflation has fallen dramatically since peaking in summer 2022, although many consumers are still grappling with higher costs – from groceries and fuel to rent and travel fares – after years of price increases.
As tens of millions of Americans prepare to cast their votes in November, the strength of the economy, and concern about its direction, has become a critical issue in the presidential election campaign.
The Fed’s decision to lower its benchmark federal funds rate to between 4.75% and 5% marks a significant turning point in its battle against inflation.
“In light of the progress on inflation and the balance of risks, the Committee decided to lower the target range,” the central bank said in a statement, after policymakers’ latest two-day meeting. “In considering additional adjustments to the target range for the federal funds rate, the Committee will carefully assess incoming data, the evolving outlook, and the balance of risks.”
Jerome Powell, its chair, had declared last month that “the time has come” for action.
At the onset of the pandemic, as strict Covid-19 lockdowns and restrictions roiled the world, Fed policymakers cut rates to close to zero. Stimulus bills approved by Congress pumped trillions of dollars into the US economy.
Within a year, vaccines arrived, restrictions were loosened, and many people started to spend more time outside their homes again. Consumer demand, shored up by the stimulus packages, remained remarkably resilient.
As inflation started to soar in 2021, Fed officials, including Powell, initially dismissed it as a “transitory” effect of the pandemic’s fluctuations in supply and demand. The following year, however, they changed tack – and embarked upon an extraordinary campaign to tame its rapid rise.
The Fed hiked rates at 11 consecutive meetings in 2022 and 2023, and then held them at between 5.25% and 5.5% for more than a year, in an effort to pull price growth back down to its target of about 2%.
While the consumer price index has not yet reached this level, it’s getting there. The most recent reading, for August, came in at 2.5%: its lowest level since February 2021.
As the labour market has cooled, raising fears of a broader economic slowdown, the Fed has faced mounting pressure to budge.
“It is clearly the time for the Fed to cut rates,” the Democratic senators Elizabeth Warren, Sheldon Whitehouse and John Hickenlooper wrote to Powell on Monday. “In fact, it may be too late: your delays have threatened the economy and left the Fed behind the curve.”
Around the world, other central banks will be watching closely. Ratesetters on the Bank of England’s monetary policy committee are due to make their next decision on Thursday.
While the Fed is independent, its decision to cut rates less than 50 days before the election is likely to attract political scrutiny. Donald Trump, who broke with protocol during his presidency to pressure the central bank to reduce rates, has argued it should not do so with polling day so close.
Trump has also suggested he would deserve a say on Fed decisions, should he reenter the White House. Kamala Harris has insisted she would not “interfere” in its deliberations.
Some economists have observed that the central bank has cause to tread carefully. US policymakers “have several reasons for go slow,” said Samuel Tombs, chief US economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics, ahead of this week’s meeting.
Tombs cited “robust” growth and consumer spending; the recent loosening of financial conditions; and uncertainty surrounding how much of inflation’s recent softening has been caused by seasonality, rather than the Fed’s campaign to bring it down.


The Federal Reserve cut interest rates for the first time in more than four years Wednesday, ending its most aggressive inflation-fighting campaign since the 1980s.
This report is developing. Refresh for the latest version.
The Federal Reserve slashed interest rates by a half percentage point Wednesday and charted a course for two additional cuts this year followed by four more in 2025.
The action marks the Fed’s first easing of monetary policy since 2020 and the termination of its most aggressive inflation-fighting campaign since the 1980s.
The decision came in a split vote at the conclusion of the Fed’s two-day policy meeting as officials cut the central bank’s benchmark rate by 50 basis points to a new range of 4.75%-5.0%.
Rates had previously been held at a 23-year high since July 2023.
There was some division on the final decision, with Fed governor Michelle Bowman dissenting. She preferred to cut rates by 25 basis points instead of 50.
No Fed official has voted against a policy decision in two years, matching one of the longest such streaks in the past half century. Moreover, no Fed governor has dissented on a rate decision since 2005.
The consensus among Fed officials at today’s meeting was that they now see two more 25 basis point cuts this year, followed by four more cuts next year and two more cuts in 2026.
Nine officials saw 4 cuts this year, seven saw three cuts, 2 officials saw two cuts this year and one saw 5 cuts this year.
When considering additional rate cuts, the Fed said it will assess incoming data, the evolving outlook and the balance of risks.
Read more: What the Fed rate decision means for bank accounts, CDs, loans, and credit cards
Officials made their decision today because they are increasingly concerned about a slowing labor market and have gained confidence inflation is likely heading back down to their 2% target.
Employment decelerated over the summer with 118,000 jobs created in June, 89,000 created in July and 142,000 in August — all below the average monthly gain of 202,000 over the prior 12 months.
Some Fed officials thought a cut could have been made at the central bank’s last meeting in July, according to minutes from that meeting.
Fed Chair Jay Powell said in his last speech in Jackson Hole, Wyo., in late August that the Fed "will do everything we can to support a strong labor market as we make further progress toward price stability."
U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell. REUTERS/Evelyn Hockstein (REUTERS / Reuters)
He noted that the Fed does not "seek or welcome further cooling in labor market conditions" and that the current level of the policy rate gives the Fed "ample room" to lower rates in response to any weakening in the job market.
Another big reason for the cut today is the increasing confidence Fed officials have about the direction of inflation. That confidence was reinforced by five consecutive reports from the the Consumer Price Index that showed progress after some hotter-than-expected readings in the first quarter.
Story continues
Officials said in their statement that inflation has made "further progress" instead of "some further progress" towards the Fed’s 2% goal, but still remains somewhat elevated.
"The Committee has gained greater confidence that inflation is moving sustainably toward 2% and judges that the risks to achieving its employment and inflation goals are roughly in balance," the policy statement read.
The outlook for interest rate projections comes as Fed officials now see the unemployment rate ticking up to 4.4% from its previous forecast of 4.0%.
Inflation is seen ending the year at 2.6% and the economy is seen growing at 2% instead of 2.1% for this year and holding that 2% level the next two years.
Meanwhile inflation is seen ending the year at 2.6% and 2.2% next year.
Read more about the long-awaited Fed interest rate cut:
Jennifer Schonberger is a veteran financial journalist covering markets, the economy, and investing. At Yahoo Finance she covers the Federal Reserve, cryptocurrencies, and the intersection of business and politics. Follow her on X @Jenniferisms.
Click here for the latest economic news and indicators to help inform your investing decisions
Read the latest financial and business news from Yahoo Finance


The Federal Reserve on Wednesday lowered the federal funds rate to a range between 4.75%-5%.
watch now
WASHINGTON – The Federal Reserve on Wednesday enacted its first interest rate cut since the early days of the Covid pandemic, slicing half a percentage point off benchmark rates in an effort to head off a slowdown in the labor market. With both the jobs picture and inflation softening, the central bank's Federal Open Market Committee chose to lower its key overnight borrowing rate by a half percentage point, or 50 basis points, affirming market expectations that had recently shifted from an outlook for a cut half that size. Outside of the emergency rate reductions during Covid, the last time the FOMC cut by half a point was in 2008 during the global financial crisis. The decision lowers the federal funds rate to a range between 4.75%-5%. While the rate sets short-term borrowing costs for banks, it spills over into multiple consumer products such as mortgages, auto loans and credit cards. In addition to this reduction, the committee indicated through its "dot plot" the equivalent of 50 more basis points of cuts by the end of the year, close to market pricing. The matrix of individual officials' expectations pointed to another full percentage point in cuts by the end of 2025 and a half point in 2026. In all, the dot plot shows the benchmark rate coming down about 2 percentage points beyond Wednesday's move. "The Committee has gained greater confidence that inflation is moving sustainably toward 2 percent, and judges that the risks to achieving its employment and inflation goals are roughly in balance," the post-meeting statement said.
The decision to ease came "in light of progress on inflation and the balance of risks." Notably, the FOMC vote was 11-1, with Governor Michelle Bowman preferring a quarter-point move. Bowman's dissent was the first by a Fed governor since 2005, though a number of regional presidents have cast "no" votes during the period. "We're trying to achieve a situation where we restore price stability without the kind of painful increase in unemployment that has come sometimes with this inflation. That's what we're trying to do, and I think you could take today's action as a sign of our strong commitment to achieve that goal," Chair Jerome Powell said at a news conference following the decision. Trading was volatile after the decision with the Dow Jones Industrial Average jumping as much as 375 points after it was released, before easing somewhat as investors digested the news and considered what it suggests about the state of the economy. Stocks ended slightly lower on the day while Treasury yields bounced higher. "This is not the beginning of a series of 50 basis point cuts. The market was thinking to itself, if you go 50, another 50 has a high likelihood. But I think [Powell] really dashed that idea to some extent," said Tom Porcelli, chief U.S. economist at PGIM Fixed Income. "It's not that he thinks that's not going to happen, it's that he's not he's not pre-committing to that to happen. That is the right call." The committee noted that "job gains have slowed and the unemployment rate has moved up but remains low." FOMC officials raised their expected unemployment rate this year to 4.4%, from the 4% projection at the last update in June, and lowered the inflation outlook to 2.3% from 2.6% previous. On core inflation, the committee took down its projection to 2.6%, a 0.2 percentage point reduction from June. The committee expects the long-run neutral rate to be around 2.9%, a level that has drifted higher as the Fed has struggled to get inflation down to 2%. The decision comes despite most economic indicators looking fairly solid. Gross domestic product has been rising steadily, and the Atlanta Fed is tracking 3% growth in the third quarter based on continuing strength in consumer spending. Moreover, the Fed chose to cut even though most gauges indicate inflation well ahead of the central bank's 2% target. The Fed's preferred measure shows inflation running around 2.5%, well below its peak but still higher than policymakers would like. However, Powell and other policymakers in recent days have expressed concern about the labor market. While layoffs have shown little sign of rebounding, hiring has slowed significantly. In fact, the last time the monthly hiring rate was this low – 3.5% as a share of the labor force – the unemployment rate was above 6%. At his news conference following the July meeting, Powell remarked that a 50 basis point cut was "not something we're thinking about right now." For the moment, at least, the move helps settle a contentious debate over how forceful the Fed should have been with the initial move.


The central bank voted for a more aggressive cut, citing progress on inflation and risks to employment
In This Story PGC GS NRDS
The Federal Open Market Committee voted Wednesday to lower interest rates by 50 basis points, bringing the federal funds rate down from two-decade highs after more than a year of watching and waiting.
OpenAI's Safety and Security Committee is going independent and they have some suggestions CC Share Subtitles Off
English view video OpenAI's Safety and Security Committee is going independent and they have some suggestions
OpenAI's Safety and Security Committee is going independent and they have some suggestions CC Share Subtitles Off
English OpenAI's Safety and Security Committee is going independent and they have some suggestions
Interest rates are now set at 4.75%-5.0%. The half-point reduction is on the larger end of projections, in line with fed funds futures markets expectations. It also marks the first time the Fed has lowered rates since March 2020.
Advertisement
The committee attributed the aggressive cut to both progress on inflation and the balance of risks associated with higher-for-longer rates.
Advertisement
“The Committee has gained greater confidence that inflation is moving sustainably toward 2 percent, and judges that the risks to achieving its employment and inflation goals are roughly in balance,” the Fed said in a statement. “The economic outlook is uncertain, and the Committee is attentive to the risks to both sides of its dual mandate.”
Advertisement
Fed Governor Michelle Bowman was the only committee member to vote for a quarter-point cut.
Chair Jerome Powell said in a press conference following the announcement that the half-point cut will help the Fed continue to balance the decreased risk from inflation and increased risk stemming from the unemployment rate, which has been trending upwards.
Advertisement
“This recalibration of our policy stance will help maintain the strength of the economy and the labor market, and will continue to enable further progress on inflation as we begin the process of moving toward a more neutral stance,” Powell said.
He added that this “good, strong start” is a sign that the committee is confident that inflation is heading towards its 2% target.
Advertisement
When the Fed began tightening monetary policy in March 2022, consumer prices had risen 8.5% on the year. As of July 2023, when the Fed set the current 5.25%-5.5% rate, inflation had already fallen to 3.2%.
Advertisement
For most Fed watchers, it was high time to carry out a cut, after the central bank launched its historic interest rate hiking campaign more than two years ago. In August, overall inflation rose just 2.5% over the past year, a considerable sign of cooling. And unemployment, which jumped to 4.3% in July, stayed at around 4.2% last month — still creeping above earlier projections.
In its updated Summary of Economic Projections, the Fed cut its projections for core Personal Consumption Expenditures, the Fed’s preferred inflation metric, to 2.3% from 2.6% in June, and the median for next year to 2.1% from 2.3%.
Advertisement
The committee adjusted its median unemployment rate projection to 4.4% by the end of this year, and 3.4% at the end of 2025. Powell also noted a median projection of 2% GDP growth over the next few years. The Fed chair said these projections are consistent with lower inflation and higher unemployment.
The committee acknowledged in its announcement that while economic activity has continued at a healthy pace, “job gains have slowed, and the unemployment rate has moved up but remains low.”
Advertisement
The highly anticipated cut initially sent markets upwards, before reversing course. The Dow closed down over 100 points, while the S&P 500 lost 16 points, and the tech-heavy Nasdaq fell nearly 55 points.
What comes next?
Analysts are expecting between a 75 to 100 basis-point reduction to the federal funds rate by the end of this year, spread across at least three or four cuts. But until further reductions are carried out, Americans shouldn’t expect to see major changes to their finances or the economy, according to Bankrate chief financial analyst Greg McBride.
Advertisement
“Importantly, this rate cut is just the beginning,” McBride said. “By itself, one rate cut isn’t a panacea for borrowers grappling with high financing costs and has a minimal impact on the overall household budget. What will be more significant is the cumulative effect of a series of interest rate cuts over time.”
With that in mind, the Fed will be keeping a close eye on the labor market to determine its next move. While it’s believed that much of the recent surprise uptick in the unemployment rate is an adjustment to a surge in immigration in the first half of this year — which has already slowed sharply — job growth has shown signs of slowing.
Advertisement
“Whatever the jobless rate turns out to be for September, the number of jobs created will have tremendous political impact and tremendous impact in terms of what the Fed’s next steps might be,” David Dietze, senior investment strategist at Peapack Private Wealth Management (PGC), said in an interview.
Goldman (GS) analysts said in a research note, however, that they are “not too concerned because layoffs remain low, job openings remain high, GDP is growing at a healthy pace, and there have not been any major negative shocks.”
Advertisement
Chicago Federal Reserve President Austan Goolsbee previously told Quartz that higher-for-longer rates could cause deterioration in the job market down the line, although he hopes it has cooled to levels that are sustainable.
“But when, in the past, that starts to turn sour, it does so quickly,” he said. “And that’s the fear, that unemployment has drifted up now a fair amount, and it’s supposed to settle at a steady state, full employment level.”
Advertisement
The trajectory of inflation is the next-biggest thing to watch, as the metric has been on a steady path towards the Fed’s target levels. The consumer will also be a key indicator, with credit card delinquencies on the rise and early signs of an inflation-weary population.
For Americans, the top financial action they plan to take now that interest rates are lower is to buy a car, since lower interest rates on car loans would mean smaller monthly car payments, according to a recent NerdWallet (NRDS) survey. That’s followed by investing some of their savings and refinancing a loan, all of which become less costly.
Advertisement
Erica Groshen, senior economics advisor at Cornell University and former vice president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, warned, however, that interest rates may not return to pre-pandemic levels, in part because the Fed is in the process of reducing its balance sheet.
“That is, by its nature, contractionary,” she said. “It’s like having higher interest rates, and contributes towards that. So that could argue for them needing to, ironically, reduce interest rates a little bit faster now, but also that the final interest rate may end up being higher than it was in the 2010s.”


The Federal Reserve cut interest rates for the first time in the Biden era on Wednesday after the White House spent the last three years grappling with Americans’ dissatisfaction with the cost of living, raising new questions about the health of the economy and the impact on voters at the ballot box.
CNN —
The Federal Reserve cut interest rates for the first time in the Biden era on Wednesday after the White House spent the last three years grappling with Americans’ dissatisfaction with the cost of living, raising new questions about the health of the economy and the impact on voters at the ballot box.
The move is fresh vindication for President Joe Biden, whose pandemic-era agenda ushered in trillions of dollars in government spending — which, when coupled with strong demand for goods, supply chain snarls and Russia’s war with Ukraine — drove inflation to a four-decade high.
The half-percentage-point cut could indicate the elusive “soft landing” — experts’ favored term for raising borrowing costs to slow the economic activity while avoiding severe joblessness — has been reached. Biden, who has publicly touted the Fed’s policy independence, will speak at the Economic Club of Washington, DC, on Thursday and likely tout an economy that’s come full circle in four years.
“We just reached an important moment: Inflation and interest rates are falling while the economy remains strong,” Biden wrote on X after the Fed’s announcement. “The critics said it couldn’t happen – but our policies are lowering costs and creating jobs.”
But the rate cut could also suggest the economy, which is showing signs of stress, is in need of a jolt. Although most mainstream economists agree a recession is not around the corner, they also suggest the economy is not out of the woods yet.
Vice President Kamala Harris called the rate cut “welcome news,” while former President Donald Trump suggested, without evidence, that the decision could be politically motivated.
With less than 50 days until Election Day, another question has emerged: Will the rate cut matter to voters?
Nevada real estate agent Zoila Sanchez told CNN’s John King that lower interest rates would bring welcome relief to residents looking to buy a house or refinance.
“Prices are extremely high, the highest they’ve ever been,” Sanchez told King. “The affordability is not there for everyday people.”
Homebuyers taking out a mortgage and homeowners who refinance could see their monthly payments drop. In fact, they already have – mortgages are based on bond yields, which have fallen in recent weeks in anticipation of a rate cut. Borrowing for cars and carrying credit card balances will also eventually become cheaper. And, if the Fed pursues a larger cut, the stock market could rise further from record highs it’s been setting this week – impacting the retirement accounts of Americans with 401(k) plans and the portfolios of the smaller share of Americans who own stocks.
But most economists say the effects will be muted or delayed, pointing to the moves the market already made when Powell telegraphed in August that rate cuts were coming. Mortgage rates began falling then. Financial markets touched and remain near record highs.
According to Jason Furman, former President Barack Obama’s onetime chief economist, it could take well into 2025 for any cut to spur broad changes in economic behavior.
“It’s barely going to affect any aspect of the economy before Election Day,” Furman told CNN. “It’s already priced into the market, and it’s way too soon to affect something like unemployment, GDP or inflation.”
Data crunched by the St. Louis Federal Reserve shows that it takes at least nine months for higher interest rates to contract economic activity and, in response, lower prices. And it takes roughly 12 months before lower interest rates are felt by consumers.
And some data indicates voters already have historically made up their minds on the economy months before Election Day.
President George H. W. Bush enjoyed 5.8% economic growth in the three months immediately preceding Election Day. But unemployment had peaked at a troubling 7.8% in June 1992, a concern that – along with Democrat Bill Clinton’s “It’s the economy, stupid” tagline – led voters to ditch Bush and elect Clinton.
Aaron Klein, a senior fellow in economics at the Brookings Institution, said some voters have given Vice President Kamala Harris a slight poll bump on her handling of the economy because they didn’t want to support Biden or Trump’s policies.
“The key metric for incumbent vote share is how voters felt in April, May, June,” Klein told CNN. “Voters’ mindset about the Biden-Harris administration is already baked.”
Still, both sides of the aisle have shown that they think lower rates could help consumers – and ultimately voters – who have been beset by high costs for a long time.
Harris responded to the rate cut by saying she’s focused on bringing down prices. “While this announcement is welcome news for Americans who have borne the brunt of high prices, my focus is on the work ahead to keep bringing prices down,” she said in a statement.
But Trump and his team are suggesting, without evidence, that the central bank lowered borrowing costs by half a percentage points for political reasons.
“I guess it shows the economy is very bad to cut it by that much, assuming they’re not just playing politics,” Trump said Wednesday in New York. “The economy would be very bad or they’re playing politics, one or the other. But it was a big cut.”
Steve Moore, an economic adviser to Trump, said the economy merits a quarter-point cut but believes the Fed should have done it sooner.
“I think this was a political decision by the Fed and will jeopardize the perception of the Fed’s ‘political independence,’ which Powell sanctimoniously seeks to protect,” Moore told CNN.
Powell, asked in July whether the Fed could remain apolitical if it opted to cut rates in September, was emphatic that it could.
“This is my fourth presidential election at the Fed,” Powell said. “Anything we do before, during, or after the election, will be based on the data, the outlook, and the balance of risks.”
Trump said in an August news conference that he believes the Fed acts on a “gut feeling” and that a president “should have some say” in how the Fed acts. He later backed off that stance.
Moore told CNN ahead of the rate cut announcement that Trump doesn’t necessarily want the Fed to be more closely tied to the White House but does want there to be more transparency behind the central bank’s decision-making. In a second term, Trump could call for regular audits and real-time disclosures, rather than weekslong delays before minutes are published from the closed-door sessions.
“There should be C-SPAN cameras in every meeting,” Moore said.
This story has been updated with reaction to the Fed’s rate cut announcement.


With the Federal Reserve rate cutting cycle expected to begin and the election more than a month away, now could be a good time to invest in municipal bonds.
With the Federal Reserve rate-cutting cycle now underway and the November election just around the corner, now could be a good time to invest in municipal bonds. For one, they are a way to lock in yield as interest rates fall. "Municipals are a great way to do that, given the tax-exempt nature, and given that a lot of municipals are longer maturity and longer duration," said Matthew Norton, chief investment officer for municipal bonds at AllianceBernstein. Duration is a measurement of a bond's price sensitivity to fluctuations in rates, and longer-dated issues tend to have greater duration. After the first Fed cut, money should start coming out of cash, he said. That should lead to "an environment where municipals could meaningfully outperform," Norton added. Interest earned on municipal bonds are free from federal tax. They may also be exempt from state taxes if the investor resides in the issuing state. On top of that, issuers have been adding more supply to the market, but that is expected to slow by Election Day, at least in the primary market, said Dan Close, head of municipals at Nuveen. "Buying now, when there's a lot of paper and it's cheaper, we think presents an opportunity," he said. Plus, "once we have the new issue calendar grind, if not to a halt, at least to meaningfully less paper during and immediately after the election, that presents an opportunity because you're not competing with the primary market." The election is bringing a lot of uncertainty about what will happen with the expected expiration of tax cuts at the end of 2025. Close said he is already seeing financial advisors start to position their muni portfolios in anticipation of changes. If there is a dividend government or a Democratic sweep of both the White House and Congress, there is the potential for "meaningfully higher taxes," he said. "It's just going to be really, really tough to go in to pass comprehensive tax reform," he said. However, Paul Malloy, head of U.S. municipals at Vanguard, suggests looking through the "noise" when it comes to the election. While a lot of proposals are thrown out on the campaign trail, things can change during the act of governing, he said. "The macroeconomic backdrop and where we are, the economic cycle will have more influence on municipal bond returns than changes in the tax rates, but investors still absolutely need to be thinking about what might happen," Malloy said. What tax changes mean Absent any congressional action, certain provisions in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or TCJA, will sunset at the end of next year . That means that the once-lowered federal income tax brackets will revert higher, with the top rate moving back to 39.6% from 37%. "That's actually very good news for municipals, because the municipal exemption just becomes worth that much more," said Close. For instance, a muni bond yielding 5% has a taxable equivalent yield around 7.9% right now, he said. With the new tax rate, that taxable equivalent yield goes to 8.25%, he said. Also on the table is the alternative minimum tax, or AMT, which is a tax individuals have to pay if their income exceeds certain thresholds. Under the TJCA, the number of people paying the tax was about 200,000, Close said. That could balloon to 7.6 million if the legislation sunsets, he said. "If we all of a sudden have 7.6 million taxpayers ensnared with AMT, we would anticipate that the spread you would need to be paid by buying the AMT paper would have to be wider," he said. Therefore, Close is taking a look at private activity bonds, primarily airport and housing bonds, that issue with AMT preference in the muni market. "We're … just saying, 'Are we getting paid enough for the risk that the TCJA is not rolled?'" In addition, the $10,000 limit on the federal deduction for state and local taxes, known as SALT, will expire. That impacts high-tax states like California, New York and New Jersey. "We don't think it's going to necessarily stop residents from moving from New Jersey or New York or California to sunbelt states, but we do think that it does certainly slow it down a bit," Close said. "It would have a positive impact on the demographics and have a positive impact on just some of the longer term credit metrics of many issuers, if it's allowed to sunset." How to position portfolios Right now, fundamentals and yields are at the highest they've been in decades, Vanguard's Malloy said. "Municipals are very much part of the 'bonds are back' story," he said. "On top of having really great credit fundamentals, as we get to more end-of-cycle dynamics, municipalities pay you to wait and provide ballast if we do turn into a slower economic scenario." He specifically likes investment-grade munis. Those rated A and BBB that have durations of 10 years or less are the most attractive right now, while bonds rated AAA and AA are looking a little rich, Malloy said. Nuveen's Close likes A, BBB and below investment-grade munis. The fundamentals are favorable as state and local governments have record amounts of cash on their balance sheets, he said. Plus, the technicals are good, he added. "These bonds still have room for credit spread compression," Close said. "Given the fundamentals, we think that given the lack of issuance for higher yield and paper, it's just created a very positive technical." Unlike the Treasury market, the muni market yield curve is upward sloping, Close said. Therefore he favors a barbell strategy when it comes to duration. One strategy at the firm focuses on the zero to two-year part of the curve and barbells it with the 15-year part of the curve, he said. "You are getting paid to take duration risk," Close said. At AllianceBernstein, there are a number of things the team is doing across their portfolios, Norton said. For one, the team is taking on more interest rate risk than it typically does, since munis are attractive on a relative basis and interest rates are likely to fall, he said. Plus, munis will see heavy inflows as investors start to move out of cash , he said. Some $6.3 trillion is currently sitting in money market funds, according to the Investment Company Institute . In addition, there's room for lower-rated municipalities to outperform, such as A, BBB and high yield, Norton said. "We think high yield funds in particular will receive a disproportionate amount of flows as the Fed starts cutting, which will narrow the spreads on lower-rated bonds and increase the prices of those lower-rated bonds," he said. Norton also likes a barbell strategy, with one year and 15- to 20-year bonds. "It provides more yield, and it also, we think, will reduce the risk of portfolios, because as the yield curve normalizes when the Fed cuts, we think that shorter yields will come down," he said. With most parts of the muni bond market pretty strong from a credit perspective, Norton is trying to find yield that can also be resilient in an economic turndown. That means multifamily affordable housing and charter schools . That said, investors should remain nimble, said Norton. "Your portfolio today may not be the same way that it should look three months from now, after the election or after the Fed cuts, and so we recommend being active and being very flexible in the way you manage municipal bond portfolios," he said.


TORONTO — Canada's main stock index was down 100 points in late-morning trading, while U.S. stock markets also moved lower ahead of an interest rate decision by the U.S. Federal Reserve. The S&P/TSX composite index was down 100.
TORONTO — Canada's main stock index was down 100 points in late-morning trading, while U.S. stock markets also moved lower ahead of an interest rate decision by the U.S. Federal Reserve.
The S&P/TSX composite index was down 100.83 points at 23,576.87.
In New York, the Dow Jones industrial average was down 52.39 points at 41,553.79. The S&P 500 index was down 6.41 points at 5,628.17, while the Nasdaq composite was down 20.29 points at 17,607.77.
The Canadian dollar traded for 73.57 cents US compared with 73.55 cents US on Tuesday.
The November crude oil contract was up 24 cents at US$70.20 per barrel and the October natural gas contract was down three cents at US$2.29 per mmBTU.
The December gold contract was up US$6.80 at US$2,599.20 an ounce and the December copper contract was up three cents at US$4.30 a pound.
This report by The Canadian Press was first published Sept. 18, 2024.
Companies in this story: (TSX:GSPTSE, TSX:CADUSD)
The Canadian Press


TORONTO — Canada's main stock index was down 100 points in late-morning trading, while U.S. stock markets also moved lower ahead of an interest rate decision by the U.S. Federal Reserve. The S&P/TSX composite index was down 100.
TORONTO — Canada's main stock index was down 100 points in late-morning trading, while U.S. stock markets also moved lower ahead of an interest rate decision by the U.S. Federal Reserve.
The S&P/TSX composite index was down 100.83 points at 23,576.87.
In New York, the Dow Jones industrial average was down 52.39 points at 41,553.79. The S&P 500 index was down 6.41 points at 5,628.17, while the Nasdaq composite was down 20.29 points at 17,607.77.
The Canadian dollar traded for 73.57 cents US compared with 73.55 cents US on Tuesday.
The November crude oil contract was up 24 cents at US$70.20 per barrel and the October natural gas contract was down three cents at US$2.29 per mmBTU.
The December gold contract was up US$6.80 at US$2,599.20 an ounce and the December copper contract was up three cents at US$4.30 a pound.
This report by The Canadian Press was first published Sept. 18, 2024.
Companies in this story: (TSX:GSPTSE, TSX:CADUSD)
The Canadian Press


TORONTO — Canada's main stock index was down 100 points in late-morning trading, while U.S. stock markets also moved lower ahead of an interest rate decision by the U.S. Federal Reserve. The S&P/TSX composite index was down 100.
TORONTO — Canada's main stock index was down 100 points in late-morning trading, while U.S. stock markets also moved lower ahead of an interest rate decision by the U.S. Federal Reserve. The S&P/TSX composite index was down 100.
TORONTO — Canada's main stock index was down 100 points in late-morning trading, while U.S. stock markets also moved lower ahead of an interest rate decision by the U.S. Federal Reserve.
The S&P/TSX composite index was down 100.83 points at 23,576.87.
In New York, the Dow Jones industrial average was down 52.39 points at 41,553.79. The S&P 500 index was down 6.41 points at 5,628.17, while the Nasdaq composite was down 20.29 points at 17,607.77.
The Canadian dollar traded for 73.57 cents US compared with 73.55 cents US on Tuesday.
The November crude oil contract was up 24 cents at US$70.20 per barrel and the October natural gas contract was down three cents at US$2.29 per mmBTU.
The December gold contract was up US$6.80 at US$2,599.20 an ounce and the December copper contract was up three cents at US$4.30 a pound.
This report by The Canadian Press was first published Sept. 18, 2024.
Companies in this story: (TSX:GSPTSE, TSX:CADUSD)
The Canadian Press


TORONTO — Canada's main stock index was down 100 points in late-morning trading, while U.S. stock markets also moved lower ahead of an interest rate decision by the U.S. Federal Reserve. The S&P/TSX composite index was down 100.
TORONTO — Canada's main stock index was down 100 points in late-morning trading, while U.S. stock markets also moved lower ahead of an interest rate decision by the U.S. Federal Reserve.
The S&P/TSX composite index was down 100.83 points at 23,576.87.
In New York, the Dow Jones industrial average was down 52.39 points at 41,553.79. The S&P 500 index was down 6.41 points at 5,628.17, while the Nasdaq composite was down 20.29 points at 17,607.77.
The Canadian dollar traded for 73.57 cents US compared with 73.55 cents US on Tuesday.
The November crude oil contract was up 24 cents at US$70.20 per barrel and the October natural gas contract was down three cents at US$2.29 per mmBTU.
The December gold contract was up US$6.80 at US$2,599.20 an ounce and the December copper contract was up three cents at US$4.30 a pound.
This report by The Canadian Press was first published Sept. 18, 2024.
Companies in this story: (TSX:GSPTSE, TSX:CADUSD)
The Canadian Press


TORONTO — Canada's main stock index was down 100 points in late-morning trading, while U.S. stock markets also moved lower ahead of an interest rate decision by the U.S. Federal Reserve. The S&P/TSX composite index was down 100.
TORONTO — Canada's main stock index was down 100 points in late-morning trading, while U.S. stock markets also moved lower ahead of an interest rate decision by the U.S. Federal Reserve.
The S&P/TSX composite index was down 100.83 points at 23,576.87.
In New York, the Dow Jones industrial average was down 52.39 points at 41,553.79. The S&P 500 index was down 6.41 points at 5,628.17, while the Nasdaq composite was down 20.29 points at 17,607.77.
The Canadian dollar traded for 73.57 cents US compared with 73.55 cents US on Tuesday.
The November crude oil contract was up 24 cents at US$70.20 per barrel and the October natural gas contract was down three cents at US$2.29 per mmBTU.
The December gold contract was up US$6.80 at US$2,599.20 an ounce and the December copper contract was up three cents at US$4.30 a pound.
This report by The Canadian Press was first published Sept. 18, 2024.
Companies in this story: (TSX:GSPTSE, TSX:CADUSD)
The Canadian Press


TORONTO — Canada's main stock index was down 100 points in late-morning trading, while U.S. stock markets also moved lower ahead of an interest rate decision by the U.S. Federal Reserve. The S&P/TSX composite index was down 100.
TORONTO — Canada's main stock index was down 100 points in late-morning trading, while U.S. stock markets also moved lower ahead of an interest rate decision by the U.S. Federal Reserve.
The S&P/TSX composite index was down 100.83 points at 23,576.87.
In New York, the Dow Jones industrial average was down 52.39 points at 41,553.79. The S&P 500 index was down 6.41 points at 5,628.17, while the Nasdaq composite was down 20.29 points at 17,607.77.
The Canadian dollar traded for 73.57 cents US compared with 73.55 cents US on Tuesday.
The November crude oil contract was up 24 cents at US$70.20 per barrel and the October natural gas contract was down three cents at US$2.29 per mmBTU.
The December gold contract was up US$6.80 at US$2,599.20 an ounce and the December copper contract was up three cents at US$4.30 a pound.
This report by The Canadian Press was first published Sept. 18, 2024.
Companies in this story: (TSX:GSPTSE, TSX:CADUSD)
The Canadian Press


The Federal Reserve just made its first interest rate cut, which can influence mortgage rates. But it still may be too soon to refinance your mortgage.
The Federal Reserve cut interest rates by a half percentage point, or 50 basis points, on Wednesday, its first interest rate cut since March 2020. But homeowners shouldn't bet on the move as an opportunity to immediately refinance their mortgage.
That's because "a lot of these rate cuts are already priced in," Chen Zhao, the economic research lead at Redfin, an online real estate brokerage firm, recently told CNBC.
While mortgage rates are partly influenced by the Fed's policy, they are also tied to Treasury yields and the economy. Home loan rates have already started to come down in recent weeks, slightly induced in part by favorable economic data and indications the Fed could cut rates.
As of Thursday, the average 30-year fixed rate mortgage in the U.S. was 6.20%, according to Freddie Mac data via the Fed. That's down from this year's peak of 7.22% on May 2.
More from Personal Finance:
What homeowners and buyers need to know as first rate cut is on the horizon
Don’t expect ‘immediate relief’ from the Federal Reserve’s first rate cut
Mortgage rates are falling, improving home buying conditions
It can be very difficult to perfectly time a mortgage refinance by looking at mortgage rate activity alone, said Jeff Ostrowski, a housing expert at Bankrate.com.
"It's almost impossible to figure out what mortgage rates are going to do from week to week or month to month," Ostrowski said.
Yet there are ways homeowners can determine when a refinance makes the most sense to them, experts say, especially if more rate cuts are slated before the end of the year.
Here's how to know when it's time to refinance your mortgage, according to experts.


Traders are closely watching the Federal Reserve's anticipated rate cut decision, with uncertainty looming over whether it will be a quarter-point or a half-point cut. Market reactions are expected to be significant, with previous retail sales data influencing dollar and bond yield movements.
Wall Street's main stock indexes were broadly flat in early trade on Wednesday, and the dollar weakened as traders weighed the odds that the Federal Reserve's expected decision to cut interest rates for the first time in more than four years would deliver a supersized move. Financial markets fully priced in a quarter-percentage point rate cut, while the odds of a more unusual half-point cut stood at 63% by Wednesday, according to LSEG data, up from as little as 14% a week ago.
'Given the uncertainty that's still looming, we can expect a decent market reaction whatever the decision is,' a Deutsche Bank analyst said in a note. 'You'd have to go back over 15 years to find such an uncertain situation this close to the decision. A lot of money will be made and lost today,' they added.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 0.16%, to 41,537.83, the S&P 500 0.03%, to 5,633.04, and the Nasdaq Composite ticked up 0.07%, to 17,638.87. MSCI's index of world stocks fell 0.10%, to 827.88 after touching a two-week high a day earlier.
The U.S. currency edged lower, handing back some of the gains made on Tuesday when unexpectedly robust U.S. retail sales data was interpreted as weakening the case for aggressive Fed easing. The dollar index, which measures the greenback against a basket of currencies, fell 0.13% to 100.78.
AFTER THE FED: Chances of the Fed kicking off its easing cycle with a super-sized cut of 50 basis points (bps) were revived in recent days by media reports suggesting more aggressive action.
The announcement is slated for 2 p.m. ET. A 25 bps cut would indicate central bankers think inflation is cooling and economic growth is slowing but not headed for a sharp downturn. A larger cut could be a sign of deeper concerns about the economy's health.
Strategists are looking for signs of future plans. 'We love this debate - everyone's very focused on 50 or 25 but what is important is that they communicate to the market that they intend to go neutral by next summer,' said Samy Chaar, chief economist at Lombard Odier in Geneva.
'The worst you can get is they go 25 and pretend everything is normal and that monetary policy still needs to be restrictive.'
U.S. bond yields ticked higher. The 2-year Treasury yield, the most sensitive to short-term rate expectations, edged up to 3.6444%. The benchmark 10-year yield rose to 3.685%.
Both the Bank of Japan and the Bank of England are due to meet this week.
Against the Japanese yen, the dollar weakened 0.48% to 141.71. The euro gained 0.14% to $1.1129. Sterling strengthened 0.54% to $1.3231 after data showed British inflation held steady in August but picked up in the services sector, adding to bets that the Bank of England will keep interest rates on hold on Thursday.
Gold rose 0.07% to $2,571.45 an ounce. U.S. crude futures declined 0.24% to $71.07 a barrel, while Brent fell to $73.52 per barrel, down 0.3% on the day.
(With inputs from agencies.)


Since most credit cards have a variable rate, there's a direct connection to the Fed's benchmark
The Federal Reserve cut its benchmark rate by a half percentage point, or 50 basis points, at the end of its two-day meeting Wednesday.
For consumers, this means relief from high borrowing costs — particularly for mortgages, credit cards and auto loans — may be on the way.
The Federal Reserve announced Wednesday it will lower its benchmark rate by a half percentage point, or 50 basis points, paving the way for relief from the high borrowing costs that have hit consumers particularly hard.
STAY IN THE KNOW Watch NBC10 Boston news for free, 24/7, wherever you are. Get Boston local news, weather forecasts, lifestyle and entertainment stories to your inbox. Sign up for NBC Boston’s newsletters.
The federal funds rate, which is set by the U.S. central bank, is the interest rate at which banks borrow and lend to one another overnight. Although that's not the rate consumers pay, the Fed's moves still affect the borrowing and savings rates they see every day.
Wednesday's cut sets the federal funds rate at a range of 4.75%-5%.
Get top local stories in Boston delivered to you every morning. Sign up for NBC Boston's News Headlines newsletter.
A series of interest rate hikes starting in March 2022 took the central bank's benchmark to its highest in more than 22 years, which caused most consumer borrowing costs to skyrocket — and put many households under pressure.
Now, with inflation backing down, "there are reasons to be optimistic," said Greg McBride, chief financial analyst at Bankrate.com.
However, "one rate cut isn't a panacea for borrowers grappling with high financing costs and has a minimal impact on the overall household budget," he said. "What will be more significant is the cumulative effect of a series of interest rate cuts over time."
More from Personal Finance:
The 'vibecession' is ending as the economy nails a soft landing
'Recession pop' is in: How music hits on economic trends
More Americans are struggling even as inflation cools
"There are always winners and losers when there is a change in interest rates," said Stephen Foerster, professor of finance at Ivey Business School in London, Ontario. "In general, lower rates favor borrowers and hurt lenders and savers."
"It really depends on whether you are a borrower or saver or whether you currently have locked-in borrowing or savings rates," he said.
From credit cards and mortgage rates to auto loans and savings accounts, here's a look at how a Fed rate cut could affect your finances in the months ahead.
Credit cards
Since most credit cards have a variable rate, there's a direct connection to the Fed's benchmark. Because of the central bank's rate hike cycle, the average credit card rate rose from 16.34% in March 2022 to more than 20% today — near an all-time high.
Going forward, annual percentage rates will start to come down, but even then, they will only ease off extremely high levels. With only a few cuts on deck for 2024, APRs would still be around 19% in the months ahead, according to McBride.
"Interest rates took the elevator going up, but they'll be taking the stairs coming down," he said.
That makes paying down high-cost credit card debt a top priority since "interest rates won't fall fast enough to bail you out of a tight situation," McBride said. "Zero percent balance transfer offers remain a great way to turbocharge your credit card debt repayment efforts."
Mortgage rates
Although 15- and 30-year mortgage rates are fixed, and tied to Treasury yields and the economy, anyone shopping for a new home has lost considerable purchasing power in the last two years, partly because of inflation and the Fed's policy moves.
But rates are already significantly lower than where they were just a few months ago. Now, the average rate for a 30-year, fixed-rate mortgage is around 6.3%, according to Bankrate.
Jacob Channel, senior economist at LendingTree, expects mortgage rates will stay somewhere in the 6% to 6.5% range over the coming weeks, with a chance that they'll even dip below 6%. But it's unlikely they will return to their pandemic-era lows, he said.
"Though they are falling, mortgage rates nonetheless remain relatively high compared to where they stood through most of the last decade," he said. "What's more, home prices remain at or near record highs in many areas." Despite the Fed's move, "there are a lot of people who won't be able to buy until the market becomes cheaper," Channel said.
Auto loans
Even though auto loans are fixed, higher vehicle prices and high borrowing costs have stretched car buyers "to their financial limits," according to Jessica Caldwell, Edmunds' head of insights.
The average rate on a five-year new car loan is now more than 7%, up from 4% when the Fed started raising rates, according to Edmunds. However, rate cuts from the Fed will take some of the edge off the rising cost of financing a car — likely bringing rates below 7% — helped in part by competition between lenders and more incentives in the market.
"Many Americans have been holding off on making vehicle purchases in the hopes that prices and interest rates would come down, or that incentives would make a return," Caldwell said. "A Fed rate cut wouldn't necessarily drive all those consumers back into showrooms right away, but it would certainly help nudge holdout car buyers back into more of a spending mood."
Student loans
Federal student loan rates are also fixed, so most borrowers won't be immediately affected by a rate cut. However, if you have a private loan, those loans may be fixed or have a variable rate tied to the Treasury bill or other rates, which means once the Fed starts cutting interest rates, the rates on those private student loans will come down over a one- or three-month period, depending on the benchmark, according to higher education expert Mark Kantrowitz.
Eventually, borrowers with existing variable-rate private student loans may be able to refinance into a less expensive fixed-rate loan, he said. But refinancing a federal loan into a private student loan will forgo the safety nets that come with federal loans, such as deferments, forbearances, income-driven repayment and loan forgiveness and discharge options.
Additionally, extending the term of the loan means you ultimately will pay more interest on the balance.
Savings rates
While the central bank has no direct influence on deposit rates, the yields tend to be correlated to changes in the target federal funds rate.
As a result of Fed rate hikes, top-yielding online savings account rates have made significant moves and are now paying more than 5% — the most savers have been able to earn in nearly two decades — up from around 1% in 2022, according to Bankrate.
If you haven't opened a high-yield savings account or locked in a certificate of deposit yet, you've likely already missed the rate peak, according to Matt Schulz, LendingTree's credit analyst. However, "yields aren't going to fall off a cliff immediately after the Fed cuts rates," he said.
Although those rates have likely maxed out, it is still worth your time to make either of those moves now before rates fall even further, he advised.
One-year CDs are now averaging 1.78% but top-yielding CD rates pay more than 5%, according to Bankrate, as good as or better than a high-yield savings account.
Subscribe to CNBC on YouTube.


Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell said during a Wednesday press conference that the first interest rate cut since 2020 is designed to maintain the strong U.S. economy.
Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell said during a Wednesday press conference that the first interest rate cut since 2020 is designed to maintain the strong U.S. economy. Rates were cut Wednesday by 50 basis points. Powell said the U.S. economy is in a good, strong place and the Fed wants to keep it there. File Photo by Jemal Countess/UPI | License Photo
Sept. 18 (UPI) -- Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell said during a Wednesday press conference that the first interest rate cut since 2020 is designed to maintain the strong U.S. economy. "The U.S. economy is in a good place and our decision today is designed to keep it there," Powell said. "Our intention is to maintain the strength we currently see in the U.S. economy." Advertisement
For the first time since 2020, the Federal Reserve on Wednesday cut interest rates as expected amid falling inflation in the U.S. economy. Rates were cut by 50 basis points, or a half percent.
The Federal Reserve's FOMC said in a statement, "In light of the progress on inflation and the balance of risks, the Committee decided to lower the target range for the federal funds rate by 1/2 percentage point to 4-3/4 to 5%."
Advertisement
The cut was made possible by inflation that has fallen from a COVID-19 pandemic high of 9.1% to the current inflation rate of 2.5%.
Powell said he understands the pain many people are experiencing from high prices, but he said the inflation rate is considerably lower now and he believes the lower inflation level is sustainable.
"We had a burst of inflation and many other countries around the world had a similar burst of inflation. Interest rates were raised to reduce inflation," Powell said. "People don't experience that as pleasant but, in the end, you get low inflation restored."
He added that what the Fed is doing now "will benefit many people over a long time."
Powell said politics is not a factor in Fed decisions.
"The policy process is always the same," he said. "To support the economy on behalf of the American people. We don't put up any other filters."
On the labor market, Powell said, "Labor market conditions have cooled off by any measure but the level of those conditions is still close to maximum employment."
He said the current unemployment rate of 4.2% is a very healthy unemployment rate.
Powell said the Fed is not declaring "mission accomplished" on inflation but he is encouraged by the progress that's being made.
Advertisement
He added, "The U.S. economy is basically fine."
He said most members of the FOMC anticipate that economic conditions will allow a succession of more interest rate reductions.
The Fed inflation target is 2%, but a rate cut was designed to help protect the economy from a recession after years of rising rates.
The FOMC Wednesday statement said, "The Committee has gained greater confidence that inflation is moving sustainably toward 2%, and judges that the risks to achieving its employment and inflation goals are roughly in balance. "
Ahead of the announcement debate raged on if the cut will be the traditional one-quarter of a percent or a heftier one-half point.
According to CNBC, Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Analytics, said, "They have achieved their mandate for full employment and inflation back at target, and that's not consistent with a five-and-a-half percent-ish funds rate target. So, I think they need to normalize rates quickly and have a lot of room to do so."
While inflation is down sharply from its COVID-19 pandemic high of 9.1%, its current 2.5% remains off the Fed benchmark growth of 2%.
While hiring in the country has slowed, the unemployment rate remains low at 4.2%.
Advertisement
Housing continued to be a major driver of rising prices jumping 0.5% in August while prices in the core items - minus energy and food - increased by 0.3% last month.
Powell told reporters Wednesday that "Housing inflation is dragging a bit. It's been slower than we expected. But the direction of travel is clear."
He said while housing inflation reduction is not moving as fast as the Fed would like, "We will get down to 2% inflation I believe, and ultimately we will get what we need out of the housing piece, too."


U.S. mortgage rates declined last week to the lowest level since September 2022 in anticipation of Federal Reserve interest-rate cuts, stoking an influx of...
U.S. mortgage rates declined last week to the lowest level since September 2022 in anticipation of Federal Reserve interest-rate cuts, stoking an influx of applications for home purchases and refinancing.
The contract rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage dropped 14 basis points to 6.15% in the week ended Sept. 13, Mortgage Bankers Association data showed Wednesday. The rate has fallen seven straight weeks, the longest such stretch since 2018-2019.
Advertisement
The average contract rate on a 15-year mortgage slid 29 basis points to 5.42%, also the lowest in two years. Adjustable-rate mortgages dropped to 5.66%.
Advertisement
D-FW Real Estate News Get the latest real estate news you need to know. SIGN UP Or with: Google Facebook By signing up you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy
Mortgage rates track U.S. government securities, and the yield on the 10-year Treasury note is hovering near the lowest level since mid-2023 ahead of an expected series of interest-rate cuts by the Fed. Central bankers are widely predicted to start easing monetary policy later on Wednesday, but economists and investors are split as to how big the reduction will be.
Cheaper borrowing costs helped drive a 5.4% advance in the group’s home-purchase applications index to a three-month high. The refinancing gauge surged more than 24% to the highest level since April 2022.
Advertisement
The extended period of declining mortgage rates may help to further boost homebuilder confidence, which increased in September for the first time in six months. Lower borrowing costs could also help bring more prospective buyers and sellers back into a resale market constrained by a limited number of homes for sale.
The MBA survey, which has been conducted weekly since 1990, uses responses from mortgage bankers, commercial banks and thrifts. The data cover more than 75% of all retail residential mortgage applications in the U.S.
- Vince Golle for Bloomberg


U.S. stock index futures saw slight gains Wednesday, anticipating the Federal Reserve's first interest rate cut in over four years. Investors largely expect a 50-basis point reduction, though uncertainty remains. Key market movers included Intuitive Machines, which surged after securing a NASA contract, and Sirius XM, upgraded by Guggenheim.
U.S. stock index futures climbed marginally on Wednesday as investors awaited the Federal Reserve's highly anticipated decision to cut interest rates for the first time in over four years.
Most market participants are betting on a 50-basis point reduction, though there is lingering uncertainty regarding the size of the cut and its impact on the economy. Futures linked to the Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq showed modest gains.
Intuitive Machines surged 51.6% after winning a NASA contract, while Sirius XM saw a 2.23% rise following an upgrade by Guggenheim. Analysts caution that an outsized move could spook already nervous markets.
(With inputs from agencies.)


Whether Fed policy-makers opt for a half-percentage-point cut or smaller move remains up in the air ahead of today’s announcement
Open this photo in gallery: The Federal Reserve building, in Washington, on Nov. 16, 2020.J. Scott Applewhite/The Associated Press
The Federal Reserve on Wednesday will lower interest rates for the first time in more than four years as the U.S. central bank starts to reverse the restrictive conditions it imposed to beat back inflation, but whether policy-makers opt for a half-percentage-point cut or smaller move remains up in the air.
Their choice on how they want to kick off a new easing cycle – less than two months before what is expected to be a close U.S. presidential election – likely hinges more on what signal they want to send as they pivot from the highest interest rates in a quarter of a century than about expectations for near-term macroeconomic impact, even as their worries about the job market grow.
A half-percentage-point cut – now given more than a 60 per cent probability in rate futures markets – would signal a commitment to sustaining the current economic expansion and the job growth that goes along with it, something Fed Chair Jerome Powell has said is the top priority now that inflation is approaching the central bank’s 2 per cent target.
A quarter-percentage-point reduction in borrowing costs would be more consistent with how the Fed has begun prior easing cycles outside of any brewing crisis. It would align with the cautious approach policy-makers said they were taking towards rate cuts, and track economic data that has shown the economy slowing but not, seemingly, about to crack.
Recent job growth has come down from the high levels of the COVID-19 era, but remains positive; retail sales and industrial production data released on Tuesday beat expectations; and an Atlanta Fed model that tracks estimates of economic growth based on incoming data shows the economy is expanding at a 3.0 per cent annual rate so far in the third quarter, above the central bank’s estimates of U.S. potential.
“We have never come close to a major tipping point on interest rates without more certainty” about how it would start, Diane Swonk, the chief economist at KPMG, wrote on Monday ahead of the start of the Fed’s latest two-day policy meeting. But while a 50-basis-point cut “will no doubt be discussed,” Swonk said, “Powell is unlikely to have the votes.”
Others argued that after the Fed’s last meeting in July, at which several policy-makers were open to cutting rates at that time, and with investors flocking towards bets on a half-percentage-point cut, doing less would be seen as failing to deliver on Powell’s statement last month that he did not want the labour market to weaken any further.
“The Fed will deliver a 50-basis-point cut to jump-start the easing cycle and will seek … to reassure that it is not behind the curve and strengthen confidence” that the expansion will continue as inflation eases further, Evercore ISI Vice Chairman Krishna Guha wrote, while noting that there could be as many as three dissents, an unusual fracture of Powell’s efforts to operate by consensus.
Regardless of which they choose, policy-makers’ pivot away from restrictive policy over the months ahead should start to lower borrowing costs for households and businesses, bringing down rates on everything from car and credit card loans to corporate bonds and business lines of credit. Indeed, rates on many credit products have been falling in anticipation of the Fed’s shift: Rates on 30-year fixed-rate mortgages fell to a two-year low last week, the Mortgage Bankers Association reported on Wednesday.
The Fed’s rate decision and new policy statement are scheduled to be released at 2 p.m. EDT (1800 GMT) along with updated economic projections that will show how much lower policy-makers anticipate rates will fall over this year and in 2025. Officials will also update their outlooks for inflation, unemployment and economic growth.
The Fed’s benchmark policy rate has been held in the current 5.25 per cent-5.50 per cent range for 14 months. That is longer than three of the last-six Fed “hold” periods but is short of the 15 months that rates sat unchanged before the 2007-2009 financial crisis and even further shy of the 18-month pause during the “Great Moderation” of the late 1990s.
While the rate decision itself is critical, how Powell describes that choice and the outlook for borrowing costs during his post-meeting news conference may be more so. He is due to begin his remarks half an hour after the release of the policy statement and projections.
The Fed’s decision, the tenor of the statement and Powell’s news conference, and the market’s reaction to it, will come roughly seven weeks before the end of a U.S. presidential election campaign that may turn at least partly on voter perceptions about pocketbook issues like food and housing costs.
In the aftermath of the pandemic, a combination of goods scarcity, massive spending, labour shortages, large government deficits, and aggressive corporate pricing drove inflation to a 40-year high in 2022.
While wage growth was also strong and for many workers exceeded the pace of price increases, sentiment was dour for much of the time as the Fed ratcheted up interest rates to try to slow the economy, home mortgage rates rose in response, and banks curbed credit for many types of loans and borrowers.
Inflation by the Fed’s most watched measure is now about a half a percentage point away from the central bank’s target, and expected to come down gradually through the rest of 2024 and next year.
The economy by almost all measures has fared better than expected through it all, with the Fed now expected to shift gears and offer its first clues on Wednesday about how fast and how far it plans to pivot.


It will take time for consumers to feel the effects of the inflation-fighting move to be announced today at 2pm ET
The Federal Reserve is expected to announce an interest rate cut for the first time in four years at 2pm on Wednesday. It’s that moment that many economists see as the end of an era and the beginning of the end of the central bank’s fight against inflation.
The Fed’s prime rate – used to set the rates on everything from mortgages to car loans – has sat at a 20-year high for the last year, making it more expensive to borrow money.
This rate cut is a big deal for the economy. But it’ll take some time for American consumers to feel the effects. Here’s what to expect.
Why is the Fed cutting rates?
The Fed primarily looks at two things when considering the interest rate: inflation and the labor markets.
Balancing price increases with unemployment is what the Fed refers to as its “dual mandate” – ensuring that inflation doesn’t get too high and that unemployment stays at a low level.
Following years of pandemic-related turmoil in the economy – waves of unemployment followed by massive stimuli from the federal government and various supply chain issues – inflation began to rapidly increase starting in 2022, topping at 9.1% in June 2022. The Fed hiked rates 11 times over a period of about a year and a half, from March 2022 until July 2023, the last time it increased rates.
Since then, inflation has come down to 2.5% – still above the Fed’s target of 2%, but a significant slowdown since its peak.
The labor market has remained strong but has started to cool. Unemployment hit historic lows as prices were increasing, but this year the unemployment rate went up to 4% for the first time since January 2022. Employers also seemed to be adding less jobs to the economy every month, a rapid cooling that had some worried that the country could be heading toward a recession.
As the most recent inflation and jobs data seemed to both show cooling, Fed officials started signaling late in the summer that it was time to cut rates.
“The time has come for policy to adjust. The direction of travel is clear,” Powell said in August during closely watched remarks.
When will we start to feel the impacts of the rate cuts?
Though the new interest rates will go into effect immediately, it will take a while for any tangible impacts to trickle down into different parts of the economy.
Perhaps the most immediate impacts were seen before the Fed actually cut rates. The highly responsive and volatile US stock market hit record highs at closing on Monday and Tuesday as investors prepared for the Fed’s rate cut.
“The adjustment for consumers in general is less instantaneous than something like market prices. If you’re in trading and securities, you can immediately adjust the price. A lot of [consumer] contracts are longer lasting,” said Anastassia Fedyk, assistant professor of finance at the University of California at Berkley’s Haas school of business. “It takes a while to trickle through the economy.”
Fedyk pointed out that it’s been more than a year since the Fed last raised interest rates, but the impacts are still being seen. The inflation rate was 2.5% in August, down from 3.7% in August 2023, a month after the Fed last raised interest rates.
The new interest rate “goes into effect immediately, but in terms of when it trickles through the economy, that can take some time. That’s why we’re continuing to see a cooling down in inflation numbers, even though the Fed has not raised rates for a long time,” Fedyk said.
skip past newsletter promotion Sign up to Business Today Free daily newsletter Get set for the working day – we'll point you to all the business news and analysis you need every morning Enter your email address Sign up Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Privacy Policy . We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. after newsletter promotion
Will mortgage rates go down?
Yes, but it will happen slowly. The good news for homebuyers is that the average rate already started to fall this year in anticipation of the Fed’s rate cut. The average 30-year fixed mortgage rate peaked at 7.79% in 2023 and has now dropped to below 6.5% – still double the rate seen in 2021, but a sign of easing nonetheless.
Still, it’ll take some time for interest rates to have a major impact on the housing market.
“For existing mortgages, unless people are going to refinance, that’s not going to have an effect, as long as there is demand,” Fedyk said. Even though it will be cheaper for banks to borrow money, “there are a lot of market forces that have to play out there to get those things over to the consumer.”
What about other types of loans?
Some loans may get cheaper over time, but many depend on other factors, like a person’s credit score.
Auto loans track closely to the path of the Fed’s interest rates, but are also influenced by a person’s credit history and the vehicle. Credit card debt, which is already one of the more expensive loans to have, will also get slightly cheaper, though not by much.
Most student loans are not affected by interest rates as the vast majority are from the federal government, which has its own interest rates on student loans that are not tied to the Fed.
Will there be more rate cuts?
The Fed likes to move slow and steady. It took 11 meetings for the Fed to get from 0%, the interest rate during the early pandemic, up to a high of 5.5%. Going back down, the Fed will likely not cut rates by more than half a point per meeting.
But economists say that this meeting marks the beginning of a new era of Fed cuts.
“This Fed tends to be fairly cautious, data driven and it’s unlikely that this is going to be a one-off,” Fedyk said. “This likely will be the start of a gradual decline in rates in months of course, so that of course will mean we’re going to continue seeing effects in the future.”


Brent crude futures for November were down 54 cents at $73.16 a barrel at 0810 GMT, while U.S. crude futures for October slid 46 cents to $70.73
Oil fell on Wednesday after two sessions of gains after an industry report showed increasing U.S. crude and fuel inventories, offsetting rising tension in the Middle East and the potentially bullish impact of a U.S. interest rate cut.
U.S. crude stocks rose by 1.96 million barrels in the week ended Sept. 13, market sources said on Tuesday citing American Petroleum Institute figures. Gasoline and distillates inventories also increased.
Brent crude futures for November were down 54 cents, or 0.7 per cent, at $73.16 a barrel at 0810 GMT. U.S. crude futures for October slid 46 cents, or 0.7 per cent, to $70.73.
“Crude traded softer after a weekly build in U.S. crude and fuel stocks, reported by the API, helped offset sustained tensions in the Middle East,” Ole Hansen of Saxo Bank told Reuters.
Brent has staged a recovery since falling below $70 to its lowest since December 2021 on Sept. 10. It faces resistance at around $75 due to weak global refinery margins that signal sluggish demand, he added.
The Federal Reserve is expected to make its first interest rate cut in more than four years at 1800 GMT, with markets pricing a 2/3 probability of a 50 basis point cut.
“Probably the uncertainty of the magnitude of the likely Fed rate cut later today is also keeping investors cautious,” said UBS analyst Giovanni Staunovo.
Oil found some support from the risk that increased violence in the Middle East could disrupt supply after Israel allegedly attacked militant group Hezbollah with explosive-laden pagers in Lebanon. Hezbollah promised to retaliate against Israel.
After Tuesday’s API report, the latest round of official U.S. inventory data from the U.S. government’s Energy Information Administration is due out at 1430 GMT.
Analysts polled by Reuters estimated on average that crude inventories fell by about 500,000 barrels, while distillate and gasoline stocks increased slightly.


The Federal Reserve on Wednesday cut its benchmark interest rate by an unusually large half-point, a dramatic shift.
WASHINGTON (AP) — The Federal Reserve on Wednesday cut its benchmark interest rate by an unusually large half-point, a dramatic shift after more than two years of high rates that helped tame inflation but also made borrowing painfully expensive for American consumers.
The rate cut, the Fed’s first in more than four years, reflects its new focus on bolstering the job market, which has shown clear signs of slowing. Coming just weeks before the presidential election, the Fed’s move also has the potential to scramble the economic landscape just as Americans prepare to vote.
The central bank’s action lowered its key rate to roughly 4.8%, down from a two-decade high of 5.3%, where it had stood for 14 months as it struggled to curb the worst inflation streak in four decades. Inflation has tumbled from a peak of 9.1% in mid-2022 to a three-year low of 2.5% in August, not far above the Fed’s 2% target.
The Fed’s policymakers also signaled that they expect to cut their key rate by an additional half-point in their final two meetings this year, in November and December. And they envision four more rate cuts in 2025 and two in 2026.
In a statement and in a news conference with Chair Jerome Powell, the Fed came closer than it has before to declaring victory over inflation.
“We know it is time to recalibrate our (interest rate) policy to something that’s more appropriate given the progress on inflation,” Powell said. “We’re not saying, ‘mission accomplished’ ... but I have to say, though, we’re encouraged by the progress that we have made.”
“The U.S. economy is in a good place,” he added, “and our decision today is designed to keep it there.”
Though the central bank now believes inflation is largely defeated, many Americans remain upset with still-high prices for groceries, gas, rent and other necessities. Former President Donald Trump blames the Biden-Harris administration for sparking an inflationary surge. Vice President Kamala Harris, in turn, has charged that Trump’s promise to slap tariffs on all imports would raise prices for consumers even further.
Rate cuts by the Fed should, over time, lead to lower borrowing costs for mortgages, auto loans and credit cards, boosting Americans’ finances and supporting more spending and growth. Homeowners will be able to refinance mortgages at lower rates, saving on monthly payments, and even shift credit card debt to lower-cost personal loans or home equity lines. Businesses may also borrow and invest more. Average mortgage rates have already dropped to an 18-month low of 6.2%, according to Freddie Mac, spurring a jump in demand for refinancings.
“It’s a step in the right direction,” Laura Rosner-Warburton, senior economist of MarcoPolicy Perspectives, said of Wednesday’s Fed move.
The additional rate cuts it indicated it will make, she said, will “prevent risks from building and the unemployment rate from rising. They are trying to keep the economy in good shape.”
In an updated set of projections, the policymakers collectively envision a faster drop in inflation than they did three months ago but also higher unemployment. They foresee their preferred inflation gauge falling to 2.3% by year’s end, from its current 2.5%, and to 2.1% by the end of 2025. And they now expect the unemployment rate to rise further this year, to 4.4%, from 4.2% now, and to remain there by the end of 2025. That’s above their previous forecasts of 4% for the end of this year and 4.2% for 2025.
Powell was pressed at his news conference about whether the Fed’s decision to cut its key rate by an unusually large half-point is an acknowledgement that it waited too long to begin reducing borrowing rates.
“We don’t think we’re behind,” he replied. “We think this is timely. But I think you can take this as a sign of our commitment not to get behind. We’re not seeing rising (unemployment) claims, not seeing rising layoffs, not hearing from companies that that’s something that’s going to happen.”
He added: “There is thinking that the time to support the labor market is when it’s strong and not when you begin to see the layoffs. We don’t think we need to see further loosening in labor market conditions to get inflation down to 2%.”
On Wednesday, the Federal Reserve announced its first rate cut since March 2020. (CNN, POOL)
The Fed’s next policy meeting is Nov. 6-7 — immediately after the presidential election. By cutting rates this week, soon before the election, the Fed is risking attacks from Trump, who has argued that lowering rates now amounts to political interference. Yet Politico has reported that even some key Senate Republicans who were interviewed expressed support for a Fed rate cut this week.
Powell pushed back against any suggestion that the Fed shouldn’t cut rates so close to an election.
“We’re not serving any politician, any political figure, any cause, any issue,” he said. “It’s just maximum employment and price stability on behalf of all Americans. And that’s how the other central banks are set up, too. It’s a good institutional arrangement, which has been good for the public, and I hope and strongly believe that it will continue.”
Powell’s characterization of the economy as fundamentally healthy, with inflation under control and employment stable but likely to benefit from rate cuts was an unspoken rebuttal to Trump’s warnings that an economic disaster is near.
The Fed’s move Wednesday reverses the inflation-fighting effort it engineered by raising its key rate 11 times in 2022 and 2023. Wage growth has since slowed, removing a potential source of inflationary pressure. And oil and gas prices are falling, a sign that inflation should continue to cool in the months ahead. Consumers are also pushing back against high prices, forcing such companies as Target and McDonald’s to dangle deals and discounts.
The Fed’s decision drew the first dissent from a member of its governing board since 2005. Michelle Bowman, a board member who has expressed concern in the past that inflation had not been fully defeated, said she would have preferred a quarter-point rate cut.
But the Fed’s policymakers as a whole appear to recognize that after years of strong job growth, employers have slowed hiring, and the unemployment rate has risen nearly a full percentage point from its half-century low in April 2023 to a still-low 4.2%. Once unemployment rises that much, it tends to keep climbing.
At the same time, the officials and many economists have noted that the rise in unemployment this time largely reflects an influx of people seeking jobs — notably new immigrants and recent college graduates — rather than layoffs.
The Fed’s attention now is “preserving the health of the labor market and preventing unnecessary damage to the economy from a pretty restrictive (interest rate) stance,” said Rubeela Farooqi, chief U.S. economist at High Frequency Economics.
___
AP Writers Alex Veiga in Los Angeles, Paul Wiseman and Josh Boak in Washington and Stan Choe in New York contributed to this report.
Copyright 2024 The Associated Press. All rights reserved.


The Federal Reserve's impending interest rate cut will make dividend payouts look relatively more attractive.
One group of stocks that will shine a bit brighter during the Federal Reserve's interest rate cutting cycle is the payers of hearty dividends. We have a handful of them in the Club's portfolio, led by Best Buy . The cycle is all but guaranteed to begin Wednesday with a traditional quarter percentage point reduction or perhaps a larger half-point move . Under either scenario, dividend-paying stocks stand to gain because their quarterly payouts will start to look relatively more attractive than competing options for income-seeking investors. That includes U.S. government bonds and even money market funds and certificate of deposits. In general, the effect may be most apparent in stocks with substantial and safe dividend yields. Considering the benchmark 10-year Treasury note is about 3.64% Tuesday, yields in the 3% ballpark would qualify as plenty substantial. Basically, we're not talking about Danaher and its 0.39% yield. There are reasons to like Danaher — including cheaper funding for its biotech customers and an improved initial public offering market — but its dividend isn't one of them. And by safe, the focus is on companies with solid balance sheets and cash flows to support the dividend . The five Club stocks with the biggest dividend yields fit the bill: Best Buy, Morgan Stanley , Coterra Energy , Stanley Black & Decker and Wells Fargo . In addition, all five are trading at a price-to-earnings ratio on 2025 estimates that are below the S & P 500's 20.3 multiple. Of course, it's too simplistic to say these five stocks with robust dividends will go up as interest rates fall. Many factors go into stock performance, such as the health of the U.S. economy and management execution. In the case of Coterra, its stock price is subject to the whims of commodity markets. Still, it's worth zooming in on this chunk of the portfolio heading into the Fed's expected first rate cut because their dividends represent a potential tailwind outside of their underlying fundamentals. Best Buy, Stanley Black & Decker and Wells Fargo are the best positioned of the five top-yielding Club stocks. A common thread linking Best Buy and Stanley Black & Decker is their exposure to the housing industry, which should see increased activity due to lower interest rates. The Fed's hiking campaign, which began in March 2022 and eventually brought rates to their highest levels in more than two decades, led to higher mortgage rates and less activity across the housing landscape. The reverse should be true as rates go lower. Best Buy "is the kind of stock that can fly not just because of its 3.8% yield, which really works when the Fed is cutting, but also because it sells a lot of big white goods [such as refrigerators] that do terrifically when the Fed lowers rates historically," Jim Cramer said during the Club's September Monthly Meeting last week. Stanley Black & Decker tools are needed to build new homes are fix existing ones. "The earnings are going to go up once the Fed starts cutting," Jim said, adding that he wants to see a few rate reductions before looking to book profits in the stock. It's up more than 25% since the start of July. BBY WFC,SWK YTD mountain Best Buy's year-to-date stock performance. Wells Fargo, meanwhile, has been wobbly in recent days after a JPMorgan executive's comments on the firm's interest income outlook spooked bank investors, and then regulators hit Wells with an enforcement action on anti-money laundering controls . We still like the stock . "I think CEO Charlie Scharf has a winning formula for when rates go down. Call me a buyer not a seller down here, especially with that juicy yield," Jim said last week, though our strategy this close to the Fed's announcement is to wait for the decision before making a move. Our view on Coterra and Morgan Stanley are more subdued. Coterra has been a difficult stock to own for reasons outside of its control: Oil and natural gas prices have trended down over the past year, and there are no obvious catalysts to spark a reversal. U.S. oil benchmark West Texas Intermediate crude is hovering below $72 a barrel Tuesday, compared with above $91 at this time in 2023. Natural gas is trading below year-ago prices, even though it's off the depressed levels seen between February and late April. The challenge for Morgan Stanley is that its wealth management business has effectively become an anchor on its investment banking business, which is recovering from a freeze brought on by the Fed's rate hikes. "Morgan Stanley is now in no man's land: Too low to sell, too high to buy," Jim said. "That means wait, which is exactly what we're doing." (See here for a full list of the stocks in Jim Cramer's Charitable Trust.) As a subscriber to the CNBC Investing Club with Jim Cramer, you will receive a trade alert before Jim makes a trade. Jim waits 45 minutes after sending a trade alert before buying or selling a stock in his charitable trust's portfolio. If Jim has talked about a stock on CNBC TV, he waits 72 hours after issuing the trade alert before executing the trade. THE ABOVE INVESTING CLUB INFORMATION IS SUBJECT TO OUR TERMS AND CONDITIONS AND PRIVACY POLICY , TOGETHER WITH OUR DISCLAIMER . NO FIDUCIARY OBLIGATION OR DUTY EXISTS, OR IS CREATED, BY VIRTUE OF YOUR RECEIPT OF ANY INFORMATION PROVIDED IN CONNECTION WITH THE INVESTING CLUB. NO SPECIFIC OUTCOME OR PROFIT IS GUARANTEED.
Customers look at appliances for sale at a Best Buy store in Miami, Florida, Oct. 8, 2021. Joe Raedle | Getty Images


The Federal Reserve lowered the federal funds range by a half of a percentage point today.
Anna N'Jie-Konte/CNET Money
Last year, Anna N'Jie-Konte, a certified financial planner, didn't recommend locking in a certificate of deposit, even though many other experts thought rates had peaked.
"I just don't think that the juice is worth the squeeze right now, given where interest rates are and where they're likely going to be," N'Jie-Konte told CNET in September of 2023.
Now, with expectations for a Fed rate cut, banks could start dropping long-term CD rates. N'Jie-Konte, the CEO of Poder Wealth Advisors and CNET Money expert, has changed her mind, but with a caveat. She recommends short and intermediate terms (18 months or less), but not long-term CDs.
"I never want folks to go past 18 months of CDs," N'Jie-Konte says. That's because you're locking money up for a long period of time with the hope that you won't need it. But then what happens if you find more favorable rates while your money is tied up?
Instead of locking money in a long-term CD, N'Jie-Konte recommends spreading the money across several investing accounts. While they may be more risky, you could get a better long-term return with a 401(k)s and individual retirement accounts, for example.
If you need to access your money quickly, i.e., for short-term goals and emergency funds, she recommends a high-yield savings account, which can offer solid returns right now. Just keep in mind that those rates are variable instead of fixed, so they are likely to go down with ongoing interest rate cuts over the long term.


The Federal Reserve is widely expected to cut interest rates for the first time in four years Wednesday and outline the path for future rate cuts.
The Federal Reserve is widely expected to cut interest rates for the first time in four years Wednesday and outline the path for future rate cuts.
Investors have been hoping for a larger half-percentage-point cut versus a quarter-point cut. Traders, in recent days, have increased their wager that the central bank will cut by a deeper 50 basis points. Wednesday morning, Fed funds futures were pricing in a better than 60% chance the Fed cuts by 50 basis points, up from just 15% odds a week ago.
“The Fed cutting by 50 basis points is a real possibility,” said Wilmer Stith, bond trader for Wilmington Trust, who just last week thought it was more likely the central bank could cut by 25 basis points. He’s on the fence, though, as to whether it actually happens.
Read more: What the Fed rate decision means for bank accounts, CDs, loans, and credit cards
Ahead of the blackout period, which started Sept. 7, comments from Fed officials indicated they are more likely to trim their benchmark interest rate by a quarter percentage point. That would mean a new range of 5.0-5.25% from its 23-year high of 5.25% to 5.5% when their policy meeting concludes this afternoon.
Federal Reserve Bank Chair Jerome Powell this past June. (Kevin Dietsch/Getty Images) (Kevin Dietsch via Getty Images)
Either way, the Fed’s actions will officially mark the termination of the most aggressive inflation-fighting campaign since the 1980s. The rate cut will mark the first in a series of cuts, with intense focus on the Fed’s new interest rate projections, known as the so-called dot plot, for how many rate cuts officials see for the remainder of this year and next.
Rate debate
JPMorgan chief economist Michael Feroli is one who believes the Fed needs to cut by a bigger amount.
“What the Fed should do is clear: Recalibrate the policy rate 50 basis points lower to adjust for the shifting balance of risks,” said Feroli.
As inflation has continued a slow downward descent, officials are turning more attention to the job market, which has weakened, with Fed Chair Jay Powell pledging to do everything to maintain a strong job market.
Feroli sees a 50 basis point cut Wednesday, with guidance for two 25 basis point cuts at the last two meetings of the year.
But former Kansas City Fed president Esther George expects a quarter-point cut with the potential for Powell to lay the groundwork for deeper cuts in subsequent meetings.
Who's right? We'll see, of course. But it could take a lot to form a consensus around the FOMC table to vote unanimously for a 50 basis point cut.
Some of the committee members, including Fed governor Michelle Bowman, Atlanta Fed president Raphael Bostic, and Philadelphia Fed president Patrick Harker, had indicated that starting with 25 basis points made sense and they weren’t alarmed by the cooling in the labor market.
Story continues
In contrast, in Jackson Hole in late August, Powell struck a dovish stance with comments that indicated he could be in favor of a 50 basis point cut, saying the Fed “will do everything we can to support a strong labor market as we make further progress toward price stability.” He noted that the Fed does not "seek or welcome further cooling in labor market conditions" and that the current level of the policy rate gives the Fed “ample room” to lower rates in response to any weakening in the job market.
Will the Fed cut by more than a quarter point? The Federal Reserve HQ in Washington, D.C. (Ting Shen/Xinhua via Getty) (Xinhua News Agency via Getty Images)
In any case, Powell will have to explain the interest rate decision and projections in the press conference following the meeting. He'll either set expectations for deeper, more aggressive cuts or say the Fed is expected to take a measured, gradual approach and is prepared to take more aggressive action if warranted.
Lots of changes to the language in the Fed’s policy statement are also expected to reflect the Fed’s decision to start a rate cutting cycle, including that officials have gained confidence inflation is falling sustainably to their 2% target, that officials are more focused on weakness in the labor market now, and that the timing and size of future cuts will depend on the data.
In addition to their policy decision and interest rate projections, Fed officials will also release forecasts for unemployment, inflation, and the economic outlook. Fed Chair Powell will hold a press conference at 2:30 p.m. ET.
Jennifer Schonberger is a veteran financial journalist covering markets, the economy, and investing. At Yahoo Finance she covers the Federal Reserve, cryptocurrencies, and the intersection of business and politics. Follow her on X @Jenniferisms.
Click here for the latest economic news and indicators to help inform your investing decisions
Read the latest financial and business news from Yahoo Finance


The Federal Reserve is widely expected to cut interest rates for the first time in four years Wednesday and outline the path for future rate cuts.
The Federal Reserve is widely expected to cut interest rates for the first time in four years Wednesday and outline the path for future rate cuts.
Investors have been hoping for a larger half-percentage-point cut versus a quarter-point cut. Traders, in recent days, have increased their wager that the central bank will cut by a deeper 50 basis points. Wednesday morning, Fed funds futures were pricing in a better than 60% chance the Fed cuts by 50 basis points, up from just 15% odds a week ago.
“The Fed cutting by 50 basis points is a real possibility,” said Wilmer Stith, bond trader for Wilmington Trust, who just last week thought it was more likely the central bank could cut by 25 basis points. He’s on the fence, though, as to whether it actually happens.
Read more: What the Fed rate decision means for bank accounts, CDs, loans, and credit cards
Ahead of the blackout period, which started Sept. 7, comments from Fed officials indicated they are more likely to trim their benchmark interest rate by a quarter percentage point. That would mean a new range of 5.0-5.25% from its 23-year high of 5.25% to 5.5% when their policy meeting concludes this afternoon.
Federal Reserve Bank Chair Jerome Powell this past June. (Kevin Dietsch/Getty Images) (Kevin Dietsch via Getty Images)
Either way, the Fed’s actions will officially mark the termination of the most aggressive inflation-fighting campaign since the 1980s. The rate cut will mark the first in a series of cuts, with intense focus on the Fed’s new interest rate projections, known as the so-called dot plot, for how many rate cuts officials see for the remainder of this year and next.
Rate debate
JPMorgan chief economist Michael Feroli is one who believes the Fed needs to cut by a bigger amount.
“What the Fed should do is clear: Recalibrate the policy rate 50 basis points lower to adjust for the shifting balance of risks,” said Feroli.
As inflation has continued a slow downward descent, officials are turning more attention to the job market, which has weakened, with Fed Chair Jay Powell pledging to do everything to maintain a strong job market.
Story continues
Feroli sees a 50 basis point cut Wednesday, with guidance for two 25 basis point cuts at the last two meetings of the year.
But former Kansas City Fed president Esther George expects a quarter-point cut with the potential for Powell to lay the groundwork for deeper cuts in subsequent meetings.
Who's right? We'll see, of course. But it could take a lot to form a consensus around the FOMC table to vote unanimously for a 50 basis point cut.
Some of the committee members, including Fed governor Michelle Bowman, Atlanta Fed president Raphael Bostic, and Philadelphia Fed president Patrick Harker, had indicated that starting with 25 basis points made sense and they weren’t alarmed by the cooling in the labor market.
In contrast, in Jackson Hole in late August, Powell struck a dovish stance with comments that indicated he could be in favor of a 50 basis point cut, saying the Fed “will do everything we can to support a strong labor market as we make further progress toward price stability.” He noted that the Fed does not "seek or welcome further cooling in labor market conditions" and that the current level of the policy rate gives the Fed “ample room” to lower rates in response to any weakening in the job market.
Will the Fed cut by more than a quarter point? The Federal Reserve HQ in Washington, D.C. (Ting Shen/Xinhua via Getty) (Xinhua News Agency via Getty Images)
In any case, Powell will have to explain the interest rate decision and projections in the press conference following the meeting. He'll either set expectations for deeper, more aggressive cuts or say the Fed is expected to take a measured, gradual approach and is prepared to take more aggressive action if warranted.
Lots of changes to the language in the Fed’s policy statement are also expected to reflect the Fed’s decision to start a rate cutting cycle, including that officials have gained confidence inflation is falling sustainably to their 2% target, that officials are more focused on weakness in the labor market now, and that the timing and size of future cuts will depend on the data.
In addition to their policy decision and interest rate projections, Fed officials will also release forecasts for unemployment, inflation, and the economic outlook. Fed Chair Powell will hold a press conference at 2:30 p.m. ET.
Jennifer Schonberger is a veteran financial journalist covering markets, the economy, and investing. At Yahoo Finance she covers the Federal Reserve, cryptocurrencies, and the intersection of business and politics. Follow her on X @Jenniferisms.
Click here for the latest economic news and indicators to help inform your investing decisions
Read the latest financial and business news from Yahoo Finance


The Federal Reserve slashed interest rates aggressively Wednesday, announcing the first rate cut since March 2020.
Washington CNN —
The Federal Reserve slashed interest rates aggressively Wednesday, announcing the first rate cut since March 2020.
The half-point move paves the way for lower borrowing costs on everything from mortgages to credit cards.
It marks a crucial milestone for the central bank’s historic inflation fight, which kept rates at a bruising 23-year high for more than a year. President Joe Biden acknowledged the Fed’s success at such a critical juncture, saying in a statement on X that “we just reached an important moment.” Meanwhile, stocks seesawed after the decision was announced.
The decision to cut by half a point, which wasn’t unanimous, telegraphs to the world that central bankers feel a sense of urgency to provide the US economy with swift relief from elevated borrowing costs, considering there were blaring calls in recent days for the Fed to kick off the rate-cutting cycle with a bang.
Still, Fed Chair Jerome Powell said in a news conference that the central bank is “not behind” the curve and that the Fed’s decision to cut by half a point is “a sign of our commitment” to not fall behind in responding to the economy’s reality.
Fed Governor Michelle Bowman, who has frequently expressed worries about lingering price pressures, was the lone dissenter, backing a quarter-point cut instead. That was the first dissent from a Fed governor since 2005.
Fed officials also penciled in more rate cuts by year’s end in their latest economic forecasts, compared to the single cut in 2024 that they projected in June. Central bankers also expect unemployment to rise higher this year to 4.4%, up from the current rate of 4.2% as of August.
Despite the Fed’s aggressive action on Wednesday, the central bank’s inflation battle, in the face of immense pressure from Wall Street and politicians, seems to be paying off so far: Inflation is substantially below the 40-year highs seen in the summer of 2022 — all without a recession. The momentous progress seen since then isn’t solely due to higher interest rates, but also because of the US economy’s gradual recovery from severe pandemic disruptions.
The Fed has indeed walked a fine line in taming price pressures without sacrificing America’s job market, an extremely difficult task because rate hikes function by deliberately cooling the economy. That tool wielded by the Fed is typically described as a sledgehammer, not a scalpel.
Still, despite inflation receding, jitters remain, mostly centered around the job market’s future now, rather than the possibility of inflation getting stuck or reigniting. That’s precisely why some called for the Fed to start cutting rates aggressively. The unemployment rate ratcheted up relatively quickly over the past year, though from an unusually low point. Economists have widely said that whenever unemployment begins to rise, it tends to catch momentum and keep rising.
That has put into jeopardy a possible soft landing for the US economy — a scenario in which inflation is tamed without a sharp increase in unemployment. Such an outcome has only happened once in modern history, in the mid-1990s, so the Fed is within reach of a historic achievement.
Here are key takeaways from the Fed’s latest rate decision.
Powell doesn’t think the Fed is playing catch-up
The Fed faced pressure to start cutting rates in July, but did not.
Some investors and economists pointed to rising unemployment and how the job market can sometimes take a turn for the worse on a dime. The central bank was still waiting for enough evidence that inflation had come under control, but Powell had said a weakening job market could speed up the timing of the first rate cut.
The pace of the job market’s slowdown seems to have done the trick. But it also begs the question: Should the Fed have cut rates in July? Clearly, some investors believe the Fed is behind the curve and the decision to cut rates by half a point fueled that fire even more. It’s a tricky predicament for the Fed, and even the fact that the decision wasn’t unanimous casts even more doubt over the soundness of the Fed’s decision-making.
Powell doesn’t agree with that perception. He said the Fed is simply committed to maintaining the labor market’s strength, meaning that officials aren’t trying to put out a fire, but rather shape an insurance policy with their rate cuts. That explanation could appease Wall Street.
“When will investors think the Fed is ahead of the curve and proactively exercising its ‘put’? This is the most important question because investors have been implicitly asking that — and hoping for this outcome — all summer long,” Jason Draho, head of asset allocation, CIO Americas, at UBS Financial Services, said in a recent analyst note. He added that the Fed’s commitment to extending the US economy’s expansion is key for investors’ confidence.
Powell also said that additional jumbo-sized cuts aren’t necessarily coming down the pike, showing that the Fed perhaps isn’t playing catch-up, saying that “I do not think that anyone should look at that and say, ‘This is the new pace.’“
Powell thinks the economy is in good shape
The Fed chief was unequivocal in expressing his optimism about the broader US economy and its outlook, including the job market.
“The labor market is in solid condition, and our intention with our policy move today is to keep it there,” Powell said. “You can say that about the whole economy: The US economy is in good shape. It’s growing at a solid pace, inflation is coming down. The labor market is at a strong pace. We want to keep it there. That’s what we’re doing.”
His characterization squares out with the numbers. Employers have continued to add jobs at a healthy pace and unemployment remains at historically low levels, despite slower momentum recently. But Powell cautioned that the labor market is no longer where it was “on the eve of the pandemic,” which he previously said, but rather that it is “now less tight” than it was in late 2019.
The Fed chief underscored the tough balancing act officials are forced to contend with in trying to finish the job dealing with inflation and preventing a deterioration in the job market, which could be hard to remedy.
The Fed chief addresses the political optics — again
Powell is typically asked about perceptions that the Fed’s decision is being driven by politics, especially with the US presidential election coming up. His response is usually along the lines of the Fed being an apolitical agency that makes its decisions based on the story that economic figures tell.
Former President Donald Trump has said that if he were elected to a second presidential term he would not reappoint Powell — and would even push to have a greater say in monetary policy. Powell said such a shift would be a bad thing for the soundness of the Fed’s decision-making, in response to a question posed by CNN’s Matt Egan.
“Democracies around the world, countries that are like the United States, have independent central banks. And the reason is that people have found over time that insulating the central bank from direct control by political authorities avoids making monetary policy in a way that favors, maybe, people in office as opposed to people who are not in office,” Powell said.
“We do our work to serve all Americans. We’re not serving any politician, any political figure, any cause, any issue, nothing. It’s just maximum employment and price stability on behalf of all Americans.”


The Federal Reserve is poised to do something it hasn’t done in more than four years: Cut its benchmark interest rate.
Key points
The Federal Reserve slashed its benchmark interest rate by half a percentage point, the first and the biggest cut since March 2020 when COVID-19 was hammering the economy.
The cut amounts to a declaration of victory over inflation, which has come down from a peak of 9.1% in June 2022 to 2.5% last month.
The Fed signaled that it will cut the rate by another half a percentage point this year and expects four more cuts in 2025 and two in 2026.
WASHINGTON (AP) — The Federal Reserve on Wednesday cut its benchmark interest rate by an unusually large half-point, a dramatic shift after more than two years of high rates that helped tame inflation but also made borrowing painfully expensive for American consumers.
The rate cut, the Fed’s first in more than four years, reflects its new focus on bolstering the job market, which has shown clear signs of slowing. Coming just weeks before the presidential election, the Fed’s move also has the potential to scramble the economic landscape just as Americans prepare to vote.
The central bank’s action lowered its key rate to roughly 4.8%, down from a two-decade high of 5.3%, where it had stood for 14 months as it struggled to curb the worst inflation streak in four decades. Inflation has tumbled from a peak of 9.1% in mid-2022 to a three-year low of 2.5% in August, not far above the Fed’s 2% target.
The Fed’s policymakers also signaled that they expect to cut their key rate by an additional half-point in their final two meetings this year, in November and December. And they envision four more rate cuts in 2025 and two in 2026.
In a statement and in a news conference with Chair Jerome Powell, the Fed came closer than it has before to declaring victory over inflation.
“We know it is time to recalibrate our (interest rate) policy to something that’s more appropriate given the progress on inflation,” Powell said. “We’re not saying, ‘mission accomplished’ ... but I have to say, though, we’re encouraged by the progress that we have made.”
“The U.S. economy is in a good place,” he added, “and our decision today is designed to keep it there.”
Though the central bank now believes inflation is largely defeated, many Americans remain upset with still-high prices for groceries, gas, rent and other necessities. Former President Donald Trump blames the Biden-Harris administration for sparking an inflationary surge. Vice President Kamala Harris, in turn, has charged that Trump’s promise to slap tariffs on all imports would raise prices for consumers even further.
Rate cuts by the Fed should, over time, lead to lower borrowing costs for mortgages, auto loans and credit cards, boosting Americans’ finances and supporting more spending and growth. Homeowners will be able to refinance mortgages at lower rates, saving on monthly payments, and even shift credit card debt to lower-cost personal loans or home equity lines. Businesses may also borrow and invest more. Average mortgage rates have already dropped to an 18-month low of 6.2%, according to Freddie Mac, spurring a jump in demand for refinancings.
“It’s a step in the right direction,” Laura Rosner-Warburton, senior economist of MacroPolicy Perspectives, said of Wednesday’s Fed move.
The additional rate cuts it indicated it will make, she said, will “prevent risks from building and the unemployment rate from rising. They are trying to keep the economy in good shape.”
In an updated set of projections, the policymakers collectively envision a faster drop in inflation than they did three months ago but also higher unemployment. They foresee their preferred inflation gauge falling to 2.3% by year’s end, from its current 2.5%, and to 2.1% by the end of 2025. And they now expect the unemployment rate to rise further this year, to 4.4%, from 4.2% now, and to remain there by the end of 2025. That’s above their previous forecasts of 4% for the end of this year and 4.2% for 2025.
Powell was pressed at his news conference about whether the Fed’s decision to cut its key rate by an unusually large half-point is an acknowledgement that it waited too long to begin reducing borrowing rates.
“We don’t think we’re behind,” he replied. “We think this is timely. But I think you can take this as a sign of our commitment not to get behind. We’re not seeing rising (unemployment) claims, not seeing rising layoffs, not hearing from companies that that’s something that’s going to happen.”
He added: “There is thinking that the time to support the labor market is when it’s strong and not when you begin to see the layoffs. We don’t think we need to see further loosening in labor market conditions to get inflation down to 2%.”
The Fed’s next policy meeting is Nov. 6-7 — immediately after the presidential election. By cutting rates this week, soon before the election, the Fed is risking attacks from Trump, who has argued that lowering rates now amounts to political interference. Yet Politico has reported that even some key Senate Republicans who were interviewed expressed support for a Fed rate cut this week.
Powell pushed back against any suggestion that the Fed shouldn’t cut rates so close to an election.
“We’re not serving any politician, any political figure, any cause, any issue,” he said. “It’s just maximum employment and price stability on behalf of all Americans. And that’s how the other central banks are set up, too. It’s a good institutional arrangement, which has been good for the public, and I hope and strongly believe that it will continue.”
Powell’s characterization of the economy as fundamentally healthy, with inflation under control and employment stable but likely to benefit from rate cuts was an unspoken rebuttal to Trump’s warnings that an economic disaster is near.
The Fed’s move Wednesday reverses the inflation-fighting effort it engineered by raising its key rate 11 times in 2022 and 2023. Wage growth has since slowed, removing a potential source of inflationary pressure. And oil and gas prices are falling, a sign that inflation should continue to cool in the months ahead. Consumers are also pushing back against high prices, forcing such companies as Target and McDonald’s to dangle deals and discounts.
The Fed’s decision drew the first dissent from a member of its governing board since 2005. Michelle Bowman, a board member who has expressed concern in the past that inflation had not been fully defeated, said she would have preferred a quarter-point rate cut.
But the Fed’s policymakers as a whole appear to recognize that after years of strong job growth, employers have slowed hiring, and the unemployment rate has risen nearly a full percentage point from its half-century low in April 2023 to a still-low 4.2%. Once unemployment rises that much, it tends to keep climbing.
At the same time, the officials and many economists have noted that the rise in unemployment this time largely reflects an influx of people seeking jobs — notably new immigrants and recent college graduates — rather than layoffs.
The Fed’s attention now is “preserving the health of the labor market and preventing unnecessary damage to the economy from a pretty restrictive (interest rate) stance,” said Rubeela Farooqi, chief U.S. economist at High Frequency Economics.
___
AP Writers Alex Veiga in Los Angeles, Paul Wiseman and Josh Boak in Washington and Stan Choe in New York contributed to this report.


