Australian shares are set to open slightly up as markets fade ahead of the expected Federal Reserve interest rate decision.
Win Thin, Brown Brothers Harriman: “The Fed should not signal another skip in September, as doing so for the June meeting really handcuffed the Fed at a time when it needed maximum flexibility. Given how firm the labor market remains, we believe the right thing for the Fed to do is to emphasise a more data-dependent approach and stress that a skip in September should not be assumed.”
The Federal Reserve rates decision will likely determine if the Dow Jones Industrial Average makes history. If it closes in the green, that would mark 13 straight winning sessions, something that hasn’t happened in nearly four decades.
The last and the only time the Dow rose for 13 straight trading sessions was in January 1987, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, The index has risen 5 per cent since July 7 close, compared with the S & P 500 Index’s 3.6 per cent rise and Nasdaq 100 Index’s 3.1% advance over the same time.
Sales of new US single-family homes fell in June after three straight monthly increases, but the trend remained strong as an acute shortage of previously owned homes underpins demand. New home sales dropped 2.5 per cent to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 697,000 units last month, the Commerce Department said.
Today's agenda
Local: Import and export prices index
Advertisement
Overseas data: China industrial profits June; Japan BoJ policy balance rate; Euro zone ECB policy decision; US durable goods orders June; US GDP annualised Q2; US core PCE Q2; US pending home sales June; US Kansas City Fed index Jul
Other stories
Blinken warns of China’s ‘problematic behaviour’ in Pacific
RBA’s interest rate rises may be over
This could be the much-battered Philip Lowe’s parting gift
Market highlights
Advertisement
ASX up 5 points or +0.1% to 7364 near 3.15 am AEST
AUD -0.6% to 67.53 US cents
Bitcoin +0.3% to $US29,299 near 2.43am AEST
On Wall St: Dow +0.1% S & P 500 -0.2% Nasdaq -0.5%
In New York: BHP -1.7% Rio -2.6% Atlassian -0.8%
Tesla -0.5% Apple +0.5% Amazon -0.9% Meta +0.7%
Stoxx 50 -1.0% FTSE -0.2% DAX -0.5% CAC -1.3%
Spot gold +0.2% to $US1,968.91 /oz at 1.06 pm in New York
Brent crude -0.4% to $US83.34 a barrel
Iron ore $US113.15 a tonne
10-year yield: US 3.89% Australia 4.01% Germany 2.48%
US prices as of 1.14pm in New York
United States
Companies reporting today included: Meta, AT & T, Boeing, Coca-Cola, ServiceNow.
Google parent Alphabet reported second-quarter revenue that exceeded analysts’ expectations. Its sales, excluding partner payouts, were $US62 billion in the quarter, the company said. Alphabet rose 5.8 per cent.
Microsoft weighed on the market after falling 4.4 per cent. That was despite reporting stronger profit and revenue for the spring than analysts expected.
Advertisement
Meta Platforms will report after markets close. The stock has more than doubled so far this year, while Alphabet and Microsoft are both up close to 40 per cent.
Commodities
Saudi Arabia is expected to extend a 1 million-barrel oil supply cut into September as it seeks to foster a tentative recovery in crude prices.
Riyadh introduced the additional cutback this month — on top of output curbs it’s already making with fellow OPEC+ producers — to shore up oil markets against a fragile economic backdrop.
Stephen Innes, managing partner at SPI Asset Management: “While China’s demand surpassed expectations in June, evidence is emerging that China has been importing cargoes to build huge stockpiles and provide some optionality in the second half if the global market tightens as forecast. In which case, refineries will likely cut imports and effectively pull Brent prices back into the $US70-80 range.”
The price of gasoline is starting to surge everywhere, an inflationary omen for central banks and governments the world over.
Futures just soared to a nine-month high in New York, sending shock waves through to the pump, while prices have also been rising in Asia.


The Federal Reserve is looking to slow but not stop its aggressive approach to inflation. Here’s what it means for the economy.
The Federal Reserve raised interest rates by a 0.25 percentage point Wednesday to further fight inflation, bringing an end to a brief pause to rate hikes last month.
The change brings borrowing costs to a 22-year high range of 5.25 percent to 5.5 percent, an increase that will be felt by businesses and consumers alike. Though inflation has come down significantly in recent months, it’s still above the Fed target rate of 2 percent. In June, the consumer price index, viewed as a proxy for inflation, was still 3 percent, despite being the lowest it’s been since March 2021.
Some analysts think Wednesday’s interest rate hike was unnecessary, in part because the Fed’s previous 10 consecutive rate hikes over the last year may have a delayed effect on the economy (though most are still largely optimistic that it won’t trigger a recession).
Fed Chair Jerome Powell addressed those concerns in a news conference Wednesday, saying, “In determining the extent of additional policy firming that may be appropriate to return inflation to 2 percent over time, the committee will take into account the cumulative tightening of monetary policy, the lags with which monetary policy affects economic activity and inflation, and economic and financial developments.”
Overall, it seems that the Fed is looking to slow, but not stop, its aggressive approach to inflation. Powell refused to send a strong signal about the Fed’s strategy heading into the final months of the year, including whether another pause might be on the way on Wednesday, only promising that the Fed will make decide what to do with interest rates based on data.
“We remain strongly committed to bringing inflation down to our 2 percent goal,” Powell said. “We will continue to make our decisions meeting by meeting, based on the totality of the incoming data and their implications for the outlook for the economic activity and inflation as well as the balance of risks.”
Essentially, as Moody’s Analytics economist Matt Colyar told Vox ahead of the announcement, “We think June’s inflation report is kind of a harbinger of the next couple, and that’ll give them the confidence to kind of wait and see.”
Is a recession looming?
The Fed must strike a delicate balance. If it raises interest rates too high, it risks sending the US into a recession, something some analysts have projected the US could enter later this year.
There are some signs that a recession could happen, including dropping mortgage demand, low confidence readings from small businesses, and a manufacturing contraction. But Colyar said that other economic indicators — including strong job and wage growth, low unemployment, and high consumer spending on services — suggest that a recession won’t happen at all, and if it does, it would likely be a mild one. Powell said Wednesday the Fed now also believes a recession is unlikely.
“It’s our belief that the US economy avoids recession and that the Fed’s next rate hike, which everybody expects this afternoon, is more than we think is needed,” Colyar said. “It is unnecessary when conditions are already tight enough for inflation to come down to the Fed’s target.”
Many economists agree. A July Bloomberg survey of business economists found that a strong majority believe that the likelihood of a recession in the next year is now 50 percent or less.
That optimism might not be consistent with what happened during other historical inflationary episodes, including in the early 1980s. But it’s true that the circumstances seem different this time around: The pandemic caused massive supply issues that caused significant economic volatility, but not the “kind of familiar inflation credit cycle dynamics that we’ve seen in other recessions,” Colyar said.
Should the US avert a recession, it likely means that any interest rate cuts won’t happen until June 2024, Colyar said.
“I think they are going to sit and wait for upwards of a year,” he said. “And that aligns with inflation slowing, the [Fed board of governors] feeling really confident that inflation is where they need it to be, if not trending toward it.”
Update, July 26, 3:05 pm ET: This story was published on July 26 and has been updated multiple times, most recently to include comments delivered by Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell.


UK's FTSE 100 closed lower on Wednesday, weighed down by weak earnings from miner Rio Tinto and the exit of NatWest Group's CEO, with investors also cautious ahead of an expected Federal Reserve interest rate hike later in the day.
Summary
Companies Rolls-Royce shines, boosts aerospace index to record high
Miners down, Rio Tinto posts lowest H1 profit in 3 yrs
U.S. Fed rate decision awaited later in the day
FTSE 100 down 0.2%, FTSE 250 up 0.2%
July 26 (Reuters) - UK's FTSE 100 closed lower on Wednesday, weighed down by weak earnings from miner Rio Tinto and the exit of NatWest Group's CEO, with investors also cautious ahead of an expected Federal Reserve interest rate hike later in the day.
The blue chip index (.FTSE) lost 0.2% ending a six-day winning streak, while the more domestically focussed FTSE 250 midcap index (.FTMC) was up 0.2%.
NatWest Group (NWG.L) was the worst performing FTSE 100 stock, falling 3.7% after CEO Alison Rose stepped down with immediate effect after admitting a "serious error of judgment" in discussing the bank's relationship with former Brexit party leader Nigel Farage with a BBC journalist.
"NatWest is no ordinary bank, it is still almost 40% owned by the UK taxpayer, and the political and regulatory ramifications of this episode are likely to ripple out for months to come," commented Danni Hewson, head of financial analysis at AJ Bell in a note.
London-listed shares of Rio Tinto (RIO.L) lost 3.1% after slashing its interim dividend and reporting its lowest first-half underlying earnings in three years.
The broader industrial metal miners (.FTNMX551020) were the day's biggest losers as the sector shed 2.6%, also hit by receding expectations of demand growth from top consumer China.
Later in the day, the Fed is widely expected to hike rates by 25 basis points, while the Bank of England will announce its decision on interest rates next week.
Heavyweight energy stocks (.FTNMX601010) dropped 0.5% as oil prices fell.
Lloyds Banking Group (LLOY.L), Britain's biggest mortgage lender, fell 1.7% after missing half-year profit expectations.
The UK banks index (.FTNMX301010) slipped 0.5%.
Rolls-Royce (RR.L) soared 21.2%, to hit its highest level in over three years after the aero-engineering company raised its full-year operating profit forecast.
The aerospace and defence sector (.FTNMX502010) closed at record high, up 5.3%
Reporting by Shashwat Chauhan and Khushi Singh in Bengaluru; Editing by Eileen Soreng, Sohini Goswami and Shailesh Kuber
Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.


The Federal Reserve’s expected move Wednesday to raise interest rates for the 11th time could once again send ripple effects across the economy.
NEW YORK (AP) — The Federal Reserve’s expected move Wednesday to raise interest rates for the 11th time could once again send ripple effects across the economy.
Mortgage rates, which have surged since the Fed began lifting rates in March 2022, could rise further. So could rates on credit cards and some business loans.
Perhaps no one has felt the pain more than car buyers. It’s not just that sticker prices are way up. Or that lenders have tightened credit standards. On top of all that, steadily higher auto loan rates have elbowed many would-be buyers out of the market.
Consider: A study by the New York Federal Reserve has found that 14% of applicants for auto loans were rejected over the past year — the highest such proportion since the New York Fed began tracking the figure in 2013 — up from 9% in February.
Auto-loan applicants, of course, aren’t the only borrowers being turned down in larger numbers these days. In that same June 2022-June 2023 period, applicant rejections for credit cards, mortgages, mortgage refinancings and higher credit card limits all rose, too, according to the New York Fed. Overall, the rejection rate for credit applicants reached 21.8 percent, the highest level since June 2018.
Some of those rejections reflect the subpar credit of loan applicants. But some are a direct consequence of the Fed’s rate increases — the most aggressive in four decades. Those hikes, in turn, have made high-cost purchases out of reach for some.
HOW WILL BORROWERS BE AFFECTED BY THE FED’S LATEST MOVE?
Credit card rates are at or near all-time peaks, and mortgage rates have more than doubled in two years.
“No one should expect them to stop rising anytime soon,” said Matt Schulz, chief credit analyst of LendingTree. “Perhaps the scariest thing of all for folks with credit card debt is that interest rates are actually rising more quickly than the Fed is forcing them to.”
The average Annual Percentage Rate (APR) on a currently held credit card that charges interest is 22.16%, according to the latest data from the Fed. That’s up about 6 percentage points from the average rate in the first quarter of 2022. The average APR on a new credit card offer is 24.24%, the highest rate since LendingTree began tracking it in 2019.
Whenever possible, Schulz recommends that card users consider asking their issuers to lower their APR. LendingTree recently concluded that a majority of cardholders who had asked their card issuers for a lower rate received one. The average reduction was significant — 6 percentage points.
“It is well worth your time to make that call,” Schulz said.
I NEED TO BUY A CAR. WHAT’S THE OUTLOOK FOR AUTO LOANS?
Many people were already having trouble affording new vehicles before Wednesday’s expected quarter-point hike. The average price paid for a new vehicle last month was nearly $48,000 — about 25% above the pre-pandemic average. Used vehicle prices have jumped by even more: The average one now costs nearly $30,000, a stinging 45% above what it was before the pandemic.
In some cases, even people with good credit are being rejected for auto loans. The problem for them is that with vehicle prices up sharply, the additional burden of higher loan rates — from 4.5% on average in March 2022 to 7.2% in June — has made monthly payments unaffordable.
“I think people are just not able to qualify for the payments,” said Jessica Caldwell, executive director of insights for Edmunds.com.
The average monthly auto payment last month, she said, was $736. Over the life of an an average loan — just under six years — a typical borrower is paying nearly $9,000 in interest.
David Kelleher, who owns David Dodge-Chrysler-Jeep-Ram in Glen Mills, Pennsylvania, said he has seen loan rejections rise even in his affluent Philadelphia suburb, though not as much as they have nationally. The larger loan sums that borrowers are now financing, along with a small uptick in delinquencies, have made lenders more cautious.
“I think that’s probably making them tighten the reins a little bit,” he said.
Kelleher said he hopes the Fed stops raising rates after this week, given that vehicle prices, a key component of inflation, have begun to ease. Prices had skyrocketed in 2021, a result of high demand as the economy roared out of the pandemic recession and clogged supply chains caused a severe shortage of vehicles for sale.
“These interest rates,” Kelleher said, “are really starting to hurt us.”
Martin Schwartz, founder and CEO of Vehicles for Change, a nonprofit that helps low-income families obtain cars, said that requests for vehicles from people who don’t qualify for loans has surged in the past year. He attributes it, in part, to the higher interest rates.
“The impact on families living in poverty is exponential,” Schwartz said. “If they can even afford a car at the retail prices used cars are selling at, interest rates are going to kill them. If they can afford the car and squeeze the payments out with the interest rates, the repairs are gonna kill them. The combination of those things means we’re getting more and more requests from all over the country.”
Caldwell, of Edmunds.com, said she doesn’t expect the Fed’s latest quarter-point hike in its benchmark rate to significantly affect current auto loan rates. With factories cranking out more autos and vehicle availability improving, she expects automakers to spend more to subsidize loan rates to help fuel sales.
Despite the rising cost burden, auto sales have remained relatively solid as prices have eased slightly and the supply of vehicles has grown: For the past two months, sales have hit an annual rate of 15 million.
WHAT’S IN STORE FOR SAVERS?
That’s where the good news lies: Yields on savings accounts and certificates of deposit (CDs) have reached their highest levels in a decade, said Ken Tumin, a banking expert and founder of DepositAccounts.com. The average online savings account yield is 4.08%, up from 3.31% at the start of this year, according to DepositAccounts.com.
Even juicier yields are available from CDs. The average online one-year CD yield is now 4.89%, up from 4.37% on Jan. 1 and from a puny 1.90% one year ago. The average online five-year CD yield is 3.93%, down from 4.04% on Jan. 1, but up from 2.89% a year ago.
All that said, those richer yields might not last if price pressures across the economy ease further.
“If we continue to get good news on inflation in the coming months,” Tumin said, “expect long-term CD rates to drift downward.”
WHAT ABOUT MORTGAGES?
If the economy does cool, Jacob Channel, senior economist for LendingTree, predicts that mortgage rates will end the year closer to 6% than to 7%. The current national average for a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage, according to Freddie Mac, is 6.78%.
Rates have fluctuated sharply this year. The average 30-year fixed rate, which had pierced 7% back in October, fell to just above 6% in early February before surging back to 6.96% in mid-July. On the heels of better-than-expected inflation data for June, the average mortgage rate has eased a bit again.
“This goes to show just how much mortgage rates can vary from week to week and how hard it can be to truly determine what trend they’re going to follow in the long term,” Channel said. “It’s likely that mortgage rates will continue to fluctuate in the face of the uncertainty that permeates today’s economy.”
IS THE FED MANAGING TO DEFEAT INFLATION?
The Fed has clearly achieved progress. Inflation, which peaked above 9% last year, was just 3% in June compared with a year earlier. That’s thanks, in part, to easing prices for gasoline, airline fares, used cars and groceries.
Even so, current measures of inflation remain above the Fed’s 2% target. The result is that many households are still being squeezed by higher prices and struggling to afford basic necessities. Reducing inflation back to the Fed’s target level will require more time.
And that means high rates on consumer and business loans are likely to remain in place well into 2024.
___
Krisher contributed from Detroit.
___
The Associated Press receives support from Charles Schwab Foundation for educational and explanatory reporting to improve financial literacy. The independent foundation is separate from Charles Schwab and Co. Inc. The AP is solely responsible for its journalism.


Coca-Cola, PepsiCo and Unilever have each reported raising prices significantly in the second quarter, complicating the Federal Reserve’s efforts to tame inflation.
Some of the largest consumer brands in the country have continued to raise prices aggressively this year while raking in large profits, posing a tough problem for the Federal Reserve as it aims to tame inflation.
Coca-Cola, PepsiCo and Unilever have each reported raising prices significantly in the second quarter, from about 8 percent at Unilever to 15 percent at Pepsi. The price increases powered sales growth last quarter, keeping earnings strong even as the volume of products they sold either went down or remained flat versus the same period last year. The companies raised their full-year forecasts for various measures, pushing up their share prices.
The Fed’s main tool to tackle inflation is raising interest rates, which reduces demand for goods and services. But food prices can be particularly sticky: Unlike other goods, consumers cannot stop buying food, and food prices are particularly sensitive to external factors like supply shocks, ingredient prices and geopolitics. Escalating Russian attacks in Ukraine and the recent breakdown of a deal to export grain from Black Sea ports have put pressure on prices for key commodities like corn and wheat.
“The Fed really has no ability to resolve those issues,” said David Ortega, a food economist at Michigan State University.


The Federal Reserve is widely expected to implement its 11th interest rate hike since March 2022 on Wednesday.
The Federal Reserve will likely hike interest rates by another 25 basis points on Wednesday, adding further stress to housing markets that have been battling the hikes for more than a year.
Wednesday's rate hike will be the 11th increase since March 2022 as the Federal Reserve attempts to curb inflation. Last month, the Federal Reserve paused its rate hikes but is expected to resume the pattern on Wednesday. After the upcoming hike, the key rate will be in a target range of 5.25 percent to 5.5 percent, the highest rate since January 2001.
Some housing markets will be hit harder than others by the anticipated increase, specifically expensive homes in areas that have experienced a recent runup in prices. According to Professor Itzhak Ben-David, finance professor at Fisher College of Business at Ohio State University, these areas include Seattle, San Diego, New York, Los Angeles, Boston and Miami. Expensive properties in those cities will be adversely affected by a rate increase if the buyers require a mortgage.
The Federal Reserve is expected to hike interest rates again on Wednesday. The hike will adversely affect high-end properties in cities that have seen a recent runup in prices. It also will negatively impact borrowers with adjustable-rate mortgages. Brian A. Jackson/Getty
However, Redfin economist Chen Zhao told Newsweek that higher-end properties often have more all-cash buyers. Properties that aren't purchased outright are usually middle- or lower-end properties, and those borrowers may be most impacted by the rate change because they require a mortgage.
Borrowers with adjustable-rate mortgages also will be adversely affected, according to Ben-David. The mortgages on those homes will increase as the Federal Reserve hikes interest rates.
"If wages don't increase in lockstep (and they often don't), the financial strain on these households increases, and their demand for expensive homes declines," Ben-David told Newsweek in a statement.
However, Zhao said that adjustable mortgages make up such a small portion of outstanding loans—only 3.5 percent—that she doesn't expect that impact to be monumental on the housing market.
When the Fed paused its hikes in June, housing market experts and economists lauded the decision and warned that another hike could deal a devastating blow to the housing market sector. However, despite inflation trending down, the Federal Reserve said that it would raise the key rates at least twice before the end of the year.
Because the July hike was widely expected, Zhao said markets have likely already priced in the increase. Wednesday's hike is less likely to affect markets than what the Fed reveals about future hikes at the meeting.
"It's possible the Fed will do something surprising...that will communicate something about the future," Zhao said.
Zhao added that the only action that could really change the housing markets at this point is if the Federal Reserve announces that there would be no more rate hikes past July. If that happens, which is unlikely, Zhao said the mortgage rates would drop.
Newsweek reached out to Zillow by email for comment.
Ben-David added that commercial real estate will behave in a similar fashion to residential real estate, "especially when tenants have long leases."
The interest rates have already started to take their toll on commercial real estate. In July, Starwood Capital Group defaulted on a $212 million mortgage for an office building in Georgia after its CEO warned of the adverse effect Federal Reserve rate hikes would have on the economy.
Values for office, retail and apartment buildings have plummeted by 11 percent and could drop as much as 40 percent, according to Nick Gerli, CEO of Reventure Consulting, which analyzes real estate data.


U.S. stocks were mixed on Wednesday and moves were small, as investors awaited the Federal Reserve's monetary policy decision.
U.S. stocks were mixed on Wednesday and moves were small, as investors awaited the Federal Reserve's monetary policy decision followed by chief Jerome Powell's press conference later in the day.
Market participants had plenty of quarterly reports to digest as they waited, with a host of Dow 30 components and tech titans Microsoft (MSFT) and Alphabet (GOOG) (GOOGL) announcing their numbers.
By mid-day, the tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite (COMP.IND) had slipped 0.23% to 14,111.68 points, dragged down by Microsoft (MSFT) and semiconductor bellwether Texas Instruments (TXN). The former retreated ~4% on concerns over its planned spending on artificial intelligence, while the latter declined more than 5% on demand and free cash flow worries.
The benchmark S&P 500 (SP500) was slightly lower by 0.11% to 4,562.48 points. The Dow (DJI) was up 0.10% to 35,472.80 points, boosted by Boeing (BA). The top planemaker's shares surged 7% after it reported a narrower loss and a healthy jump in revenue.
Of the 11 S&P sectors, six were trading in the green, led by an outsized +2% increase in Communication Services. Technology and Materials topped the losers.
The main event of the day will be the Fed's rate decision, which is widely expected to be a 25 basis point hike. The more important question is whether this will be the final rate increase in what has been the central bank's most aggressive tightening campaign in decades. Traders will be keenly watching the post-decision press conference for clues from chair Powell on the future of monetary policy.
According to the CME FedWatch tool, markets mostly expect the Fed to hold rates steady the rest of this year after today's 25 basis point hike. Chances of a rate cut have been pushed out until March.
"In the post-meeting press conference, we look for Powell to indicate that the June dots are still informative, but that no decisions about the future have been made and that policy will remain data dependent," JPMorgan's Michael Feroli said in a preview note last week.
"The curious outcome of the June FOMC meeting—no hike but dots revised up to show a strong majority for at least two hikes over the remaining four meetings of the year—already made a hike at the July meeting seem likely. The data over the intermeeting period haven’t been that surprising. While the June CPI was certainly welcome it will probably take a few more favorable outturns to influence the FOMC’s thinking," Feroli added.
Economic data on Tuesday had showed a surge in consumer confidence to its highest levels since July 2021. That could keep the pressure on the Fed to remain hawkish.
Wednesday's economic calendar showed that State Street's reading of global investor confidence rose in July from June. Meanwhile, July's survey of business uncertainty over revenue growth remained higher than pre-pandemic levels. Finally, June new home sales came in at 697K, lower than the anticipated 725K figure.
Treasury yields were mixed ahead of the rate decision. The longer-end 10-year yield (US10Y) was down 3 basis points to 3.88%, while the more rate-sensitive 2-year yield (US2Y) was flat at 4.89%.
Among other earnings related moves, Alphabet (GOOG) (GOOGL) shares surged to a 15-month high after the Google-parent's quarterly results showed modest but steady growth on the back of advertising revenues of nearly $60B.
Visa (V) stock fell more than 1%, despite the card issuer posting a top and bottom line beat on robust consumer spending and a continued recovery in travel. Fellow Dow 30 component Coca-Cola (KO) rose after smashing organic revenue expectations.
Union Pacific (UNP) was the top percentage gainer on the S&P 500 (SP500) after the railroad operator named former chief operating officer Jim Vena as its new CEO.
More on the markets


Even with renewed consumer confidence in the U.S. economy, the Federal Reserve on Wednesday is widely expected to announce it will keep battling inflation with aggressive rate hikes.
1/3
Federal Reserve Board Chairman Jerome Powell is widely expected to announce another rate hike on Wednesday. Consumer confidence is high, though inflation continues to run higher than the 2% target rate set by the Fed. File Photo by Ken Cedeno/UPI | License Photo
July 26 (UPI) -- Even with renewed consumer confidence in the U.S. economy, the Federal Reserve on Wednesday is widely expected to announce it will keep battling inflation with aggressive rate hikes. Few surprises are expected from the Fed when it announces its next rate policy decision at 2 p.m. EDT. The Fed paused rate hikes in June, but made it known that more were likely later this year. Advertisement
Lorie Logan, a voting member at the Federal Reserve and the president of the central bank in Dallas, said that inflationary data and labor trends suggest further rate hikes may be necessary to cool the economy.
"The continuing outlook for above-target inflation and a stronger-than-expected labor market calls for more-restrictive monetary policy," she said in early July.
That backs late June comments from Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell, who said that economic activity was expanding, but inflation remained above the 2% target rate set by the Fed.
Advertisement
"Inflation has moderated somewhat since the middle of last year," he said. "Nonetheless, inflation pressures continue to run high, and the process of getting inflation back down to 2% has a long way to go."
So-called core inflation, which strips out volatile prices for food and energy, was at 4.8% over the 12-month period to June.
Rate hikes -- there have been 11 over 12 policy meetings for the Fed -- are designed to make borrowing more prohibitive, though job and wage growth continue to create obstacles for policymakers.
The latest reading on consumer confidence, meanwhile, shows optimism is at the highest level since July 2021.
Dana Petersen, the chief economist at The Conference Board, said Tuesday that consumers remain upbeat, despite the hike in interest rates. Nevertheless, Petersen said a recession is likely before the end of the year.
That sentiment, despite improved confidence, was shared by consumers.
"Still, recession expectations remained below their recent peak, suggesting fears of a recession have eased relative to earlier this year," Petersen added.
The Fed is trying to avert a major recession by way of a so-called soft landing, which would avoid the widespread layoffs that would come from a sharp economic downturn. Touting his economic policy, dubbed Bidenomics, President Joe Biden said job prospects and the overall economy are in good shape despite the rate hikes from the Fed.
Advertisement
"Today, the U.S. has the highest economic growth rate leading the world economy since the pandemic, the highest in the world," he said. "We have 13.4 million new jobs. More jobs in two years than any president has done in four years. Folks, it's no accident. That's Bidenomics in action."
Markets were flat at the start of the trading day on Wall Street, with little to no movement in major stock market indices. Crude oil prices were slightly lower as tighter rate policies would crimp consumer demand.
Ed Moya, a senior market analyst with New York brokerage OANDA, said the Fed is likely to take a break after Wednesday to see how long-term trends play out.
"This should be an easy meeting for the Fed as they will raise rates and keep optionality for further tightening on the table," he said.


The Federal Reserve is expected to announce later on Wednesday that it will raise its benchmark lending rate to the highest level in 22 years.
The Federal Reserve is expected to announce later on Wednesday that it will raise its benchmark lending rate to the highest level in 22 years.
The Federal Reserve is expected to announce later on Wednesday that it will raise its benchmark lending rate to the highest level in 22 years.
That move will come just one month after the central bank hit pause on a historic spate of rate hikes meant to crush decades-high inflation.
Moreover, the Fed could also hint at the possibility of another rate increase this year -- its 12th hike since it began raising rates last spring -- even though inflation has steadily cooled in recent months.
Investors will be looking for more details around that potential hike. While it could happen at the September or November meeting, it's also possible that July could see the last hike of this cycle. The second hike coming in December is unlikely, but possible if inflation re-emerges because of an unforeseen economic shock.
Much depends on what economic data show in the next eight weeks -- and things can go either way. That's why the Fed is trying to retain the option of another rate increase in case inflation proves to be more resilient than expected. Fed Chair Jerome Powell's remarks during an annual gathering of central bankers and economists in Wyoming next month could shed more light on what to expect for the September decision.
There are three possibilities for what the Fed might do moving forward, according to economists: a second consecutive rate hike in September, one in November, or no more rate hikes after July. It's anyone's guess what will ultimately transpire, since the economy has consistently defied expectations. But right now, there's no denying there's optimism in the air.
A sense of hope
Americans haven't felt this optimistic about the economy and the potential for inflation to ease since 2021. Also, economists are noticing better business conditions and investors have grown more bullish on the Fed's chances of pulling off a soft landing, a scenario in which the central bank succeeds at bringing down inflation without tanking the economy.
This new-found confidence comes as inflation has slowed and the economy has held up -- all on the backdrop of 10 straight rate hikes since the Fed began to lift rates in March 2022. The economy's remarkable resilience has quelled fears of a recession somewhat. Some Wall Street bankers now think a mild recession might happen later than expected.
That's all thanks to inflation's cooldown. The Consumer Price Index rose 3% in June, a much slower pace than the four-decade high of 9.1% in June 2022. The Fed's preferred inflation gauge -- the Personal Consumption Expenditures price index -- rose 3.8% in May from a year earlier, down from the 4.3% annual rise seen in April. The Commerce Department releases the June reading of the Fed's favorite inflation measure Friday.
Consumer optimism is a great sign for the Fed because it means Americans have faith that inflation will eventually come down to a sustainable level they're familiar with. Former Fed chair Ben Bernanke, who steered the central bank during the financial crisis and who recently co-authored a widely cited paper on inflation's origins, recently said the July hike might just be the last one.
And there is certainly a dovish camp at the Federal Open Market Committee, the central bank committee that decides interest rate moves, so the end of rate hikes after July is very much a possibility.
"I have the view that we can be patient -- our policy right now is clearly in the restrictive territory," Atlanta Fed President Raphael Bostic said in a speech earlier this month. "We continue to see signs that the economy is slowing down, which tells me the restrictiveness is working."
The end of rate hikes would usher in the next phase of the Fed's inflation fight, which would likely be to simply hold rates steady until inflation is fully tamped down. That could take a several months or even a year. The Fed held rates steady for nine straight meetings over the span of a year the last time it paused a rate-hiking campaign in 2006.
But there's still the very real risk of US consumers simply accepting higher prices if inflation's defeat stalls for too long, making a case for one more rate hike. And if there's one thing the Fed doesn't want to do, it is to give financial markets any signal that rate cuts are coming some time soon.
A hawkish Fed wants to keep hopes in check
The Fed doesn't want to back itself into a corner where it doesn't have the option of hiking, at least not without surprising financial markets.
"Powell will still maintain a fairly hawkish line, I don't think they're going to back off yet, but they'll have to acknowledge the fact that inflation has come down, so they will lean to the labor market still being very strong," Seema Shah, chief global strategist at Principal Asset Management, told CNN. "And as long as it is very strong, there's always going to be a risk that wage numbers continue to rise, risking undoing all their hard work."
Top economists argue the labor market will prove to be a persistent source of inflationary pressure that would require the Fed to slow the economy further. The Fed is closely watching the labor market for signs that demand and supply are coming back "into better balance," as Powell describes it. Conceivably, that could mean fewer job openings do the trick of easing pressure off wage growth and in turn, consumer prices.
Higher labor costs loom large for service-providing businesses such as restaurants and hospitals. Those are labor-intensive industries, so having to beef up compensation to hire enough staff means those higher costs can be passed on to consumers. Though for some businesses, it has become harder to pass costs on, according to anecdotes in the Fed's Beige Book, a compilation of survey responses from businesses around the country.
The Labor Department releases its Employment Cost Index for the second quarter this Friday, a key report that will inform officials if underlying inflationary pressures have lost any steam in recent months. The Commerce Department also releases its first estimate of second-quarter gross domestic product the day after the Fed announces its policy decision Wednesday.
Some officials have already argued for hiking in September, seen as ripping the bandage off and dealing one final blow to inflation before commencing the next phase of the inflation fight.
"If inflation does not continue to show progress and there are no suggestions of a significant slowdown in economic activity, then a second 25-basis-point [ quarter-point ] hike should come sooner rather than later, but that decision is for the future," Fed Governor Christopher Waller said this month in a forum.
Hiking in November -- or the hike-at-every-other-meeting approach -- would simply be the Fed's attempt at easing its foot off the gas pedal. A hike in July would already resemble that approach.
"As you're getting closer to your final destination, the terminal rate, it makes sense to go a little slower, similar to when you're on the highway and you're getting closer to your exit, you start slowing down so you don't miss it," said José Torres, senior economist at Interactive Brokers. "That's pretty much the rationale there -- slowing down to see the effect of previous rate hikes, in case we get a month of really, really bad data."
Powell described it exactly that way during congressional testimony last month.
Whatever the Fed decides to do won't come without a vigorous debate, and perhaps even a dissent, though the Fed has a tradition of collegiality. Nearly all of the Fed's decisions have been unanimous since the central bank began lifting rates in March 2022, with the exception of two meetings early in the Fed's current inflation battle.
The Fed is expected to announce its July policy decision at 2 p.m. ET on Wednesday, followed by a 2:30 p.m. press conference with Chair Jerome Powell.
The-CNN-Wire ™ & © 2023 Cable News Network, Inc., a WarnerMedia Company. All rights reserved.


Amid rate activity from the Federal Reserve, borrowers should understand how their student loan rates are affected.
We may receive commissions from some links to products on this page. Promotions are subject to availability and retailer terms.
Federal and private student loans can be influenced by the Fed, but they are not directly tied to Fed rate moves. Getty Images
With the fall semester around the corner, many students are wondering what to do about student loans. In today's inflationary environment, many students and their families are already stretching their budgets.
To try to curb inflation since 2022, the Federal Reserve has been significantly raising the federal funds rate, which is the rate banks charge each other for overnight loans. As borrowing costs get more expensive for banks themselves, that can then influence interest rates for things like car loans and credit cards, as well as yields on Treasury securities.
Student loan interest rates, both federal and private, have also generally gone up during this period. However, it's important to note that many types of interest rates, including student loan rates, do not directly mirror the Fed's actions. That's because the Federal Reserve does not directly set student loan interest rates, even for federal loans. The Fed's actions generally influence broader interest rates, but there can be other factors at play, and rates don't always move in lockstep.
So, while there's some debate as to how much the Fed will continue raising rates in 2023—and whether the trend will reverse next year—you might not want to base student loan borrowing decisions based on what the Fed may or may not do.
"Most students are probably better off choosing the best financing options in the present rather than trying to guess the Fed's and economy's moves a year from now," says Elizabeth Pennington, CFP, senior associate at Fearless Finance.
If federal student loans aren't enough to meet your needs then consider private student loans, too. You can easily check rates and terms here now.
What drives federal student loan interest rates?
Federal student loan interest rates follow a set formula. The 10-year Treasury note is used as a baseline, with fixed markups added based on the type of federal loan.
For example, for loans disbursed between July 1, 2023-June 30, 2024, the 10-year Treasury yield of 3.448% was used as the baseline. Direct Subsidized and Direct Unsubsidized Loans for undergraduates have a 2.05% add-on fee, so the fixed rate for these loans totals 5.50%.
In comparison, for loans disbursed from July 1, 2022-June 30, 2023, the 10-year Treasury rate used at the time was 2.943%. The add-on for Direct Subsidized and Direct Unsubsidized Loans remains constant at 2.05%, so that meant the total fixed rate was 4.99%.
In other words, the difference of about half of a percentage point over the past year can directly be explained by a corresponding change to the underlying 10-year Treasury rate, which doesn't exactly follow the Fed funds rate. "Those Treasury note rates are set by auction," says Pennington. "So while the Fed's changes are going to affect the market for Treasury notes, so will expectations about future Fed rate changes."
Expectations about the economy as a whole can also affect the market for Treasury notes, as well as impacting Fed rate changes, she adds.
What drives private student loan interest rates?
Similar to federal student loans, private student loans are generally influenced but not set by the Fed.
"Any change the Federal Reserve makes in rates is likely to impact market indexes, which are used by lenders to determine interest rates. As the federal rate goes up, the cost to borrow is likely to follow, and when rates go down, interest rates are expected to fall," says Angela Colatriano, chief marketing officer at College Ave Student Loans.
Private student loan rates can be either fixed or variable, whereas federal student loans are always fixed. And unlike federal loans that strictly use the 10-year Treasury rate to base rates on, private lenders can differ in terms of underlying benchmarks and the formulas they use to come up with actual rates.
"That means that at times, private student loan rates are significantly lower than federal loan rates because market conditions dictate a different rate than the federal loan rate formula," says Pennington. "At other times, federal loan rates are more competitive because of generally high lending costs in the private market."
In many cases, private lenders use the same underlying benchmarks to establish rates, like the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR). But they can have different markups.
"At the end of the day, private lenders are picking rates that keep them competitive in the market," adds Pennington.
Not sure what private student loan rate you'd qualify for? Find out here now!
Choosing what works best
Just because Fed rates rise or fall doesn't mean that all student loan lenders follow suit, so it's important to compare your options.
"Shop around to understand what rates you qualify for and pay attention to the monthly payment to make sure it feels reasonable for your budget," says Colatriano.
If you have a good credit score, for example, you might qualify for a lower rate than the headlines might indicate.
"Private lender rates are in part based on credit scores, while federal rates are not. So in 2021, for example, I'm sure there were borrowers with excellent credit who could get significantly lower rates privately vs. federal," says Pennington.
Now, with rates relatively high, you might be tempted to sit on the sidelines to see if they come down before applying for student loans. But that can get tricky.
"The past few years have shown us that predicting market activity can be very difficult, if not impossible," says Pennington.
Even if you do take out student loans now and then rates fall in the future, you might then be in a position where refinancing makes sense.
Federal student loans can't be refinanced through the government, but you could refinance them with a private lender, thereby converting them into private loans. Doing so means forgoing federal student loan benefits, like the potential for federal student loan forgiveness, but it might lead to finding a better rate.
Before you get that far, though, analyze your different college funding options and see what makes sense for your finances.
"Before they borrow, families should exhaust 'free money' such as scholarships and grants, as well as look at what they can contribute via their savings and income," says Colatriano.
"If they need to borrow, use federal student loans in the student's name first as those come with a low fixed rate and unique benefits and protections. Federal loans in the student's name do have annual borrowing limits, and that is where private student loans can help close the gap," she adds.
Check your private student loan options here now to learn more.


The Federal Reserve is expected to raise rates by 0.25% on Wednesday, resuming its aggressive rate hiking campaign in an effort to bring inflation back to its 2% target.
The Federal Reserve is expected to raise interest rates Wednesday by a quarter percentage point after taking a break last month.
A 0.25% rate hike would bring the Fed’s policy rate, the fed funds rate, to a new range of 5.25%-5.5%, the highest level in 22 years; Wednesday's rate hike will mark the eleventh increase since March 2022.
With no new interest rate projections or economic forecasts released this meeting, all eyes will be on Fed Chair Jay Powell and his outlook for monetary policy.
Powell is likely to talk tough on inflation and suggest another rate hike in September could be possible as the central bank works to bring inflation back to its 2% target. The Fed now expects inflation to end the year closer to 4%, up from 3.6% previously and nearly double its inflation target.
"Given forward-looking inflation and labor market dynamics, this will implicitly favor Powell sounding more hawkish than otherwise," said EY Chief Economist Gregory Daco.
"The last thing policymakers want is for markets to start pricing the Fed’s terminal rate and rapid rate cuts in 2024 which would lead to looser financial conditions and upside risks to demand and inflation."
Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell. (AP Photo/Manu Fernandez)
Last month, officials penciled in two more rate hikes for the second half of the year based on higher expectations for core inflation. Wednesday's move would mark the first of the two rate hikes the Fed has laid out.
Powell is expected to err on the side of reiterating the Fed has more work to do even as inflation data showed consumer prices in June rose at the slowest pace since March 2021, with headline CPI rising 3% — down from a 9% at its peak last summer.
On a "core" basis — which strips out the costs of food and gas — inflation rose 4.8% over the prior year.
The Fed will announce its monetary policy decision at 2:00 p.m. ET Wednesday followed by a press conference with Fed Chair Jerome Powell at 2:30 pm ET.
Click here for the latest economic news and economic indicators to help you in your investing decisions
Read the latest financial and business news from Yahoo Finance


NEW YORK (AP) — Stocks are opening mixed as Wall Street waits to hear what the Federal Reserve will do with interest rates later in the afternoon. The S&P 500 was down 0.
NEW YORK (AP) — Stocks are opening mixed as Wall Street waits to hear what the Federal Reserve will do with interest rates later in the afternoon. The S&P 500 was down 0.
NEW YORK (AP) — Stocks are opening mixed as Wall Street waits to hear what the Federal Reserve will do with interest rates later in the afternoon. The S&P 500 was down 0.2% early Wednesday, coming off its best closing level in more than 15 months. The Dow was just barely higher and the Nasdaq composite was down 0.4%. Microsoft lost 3.9% despite reporting stronger profit and revenue than analysts expected. Google’s parent company, Alphabet, helped to limit the market’s losses with a gain of 5.4% after beating analysts’ forecasts by a wider margin than Microsoft did.
THIS IS A BREAKING NEWS UPDATE. AP’s earlier story follows below.
Wall Street ticked modestly lower Wednesday after hitting a 15-month high ahead of what traders hope will be the Federal Reserve's final increase in this interest rate cycle.
Futures for the S&P 500 and the Dow Jones Industrial Average were each about 0.1% lower before the bell.
Later Wednesday, investors expect the Fed to raise its key lending rate by 0.25 percentage points to a 22-year high. They hope the U.S. central bank can manage a “soft landing,” extinguishing inflation while avoiding a recession.
The U.S. job market has been unexpectedly strong since the spring of 2020, when the pandemic wiped out more than 20 million jobs in a matter of weeks. Since then, plentiful jobs and solid wage growth have allowed U.S. households to keep spending, helping to prop up the economy.
Despite evidence that inflation has retreated significantly in recent months, the resilience of the labor market could mean the Fed would still be open to another rate hike before the end of the year.
“There remains a risk that (Fed chair) Jerome Powell could maintain a more hawkish slant than markets would like,” Tim Waterer of KCM Trade said in a report.
It's also a busy stretch for corporate news, with about 30% of the companies in the S&P 500 due to report earnings this week.
Boeing shares rose more than 3% early Wednesday after the jet maker reported a narrower loss than expected as revenue rose. Snap tumbled 18% after the social media app lowered its forecast for the current quarter.
Facebook parent company Meta reports its quarterly earnings after the bell Wednesday.
Meanwhile, traders waited to see how China's ruling Communist Party will carry out its promise to shore up sluggish economic growth. The ruling party has pledged to support entrepreneurs and the struggling real estate industry but has given no details.
That leaves “room for disappointment if the stimulus details were to lack conviction,” Yeap Jun Rong of IG said in a report.
At midday in Europe, the FTSE in London was off 0.6%, the CAC 40 in Paris gave up 1.9% and the DAX in Frankfurt retreated 0.8%.
In Asia, the Shanghai Composite Index lost 0.3% to 3,223.02 and the Nikkei 225 in Tokyo shed less than 0.1% to 32,668.34. The Hang Seng in Hong Kong fell 0.3% to 19,381.15.
The Kospi in Seoul tumbled 1.7% to 2,592.36 while India's Sensex advanced 0.7% to 66,825.31.
Sydney's S&P-ASX 200 rose 0.9% to 7,402.00 after the government reported Australian inflation eased to 5.4% in June from the previous month's 5.5%, reducing pressure on the central bank for another interest rate hike to cool upward pressure on prices.
Bangkok declined while New Zealand and other Southeast Asian markets advanced.
In energy markets, benchmark U.S. crude lost 96 cents to $78.67 per barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The contract rose 89 cents the previous session to $79.63. Brent crude, the price basis for international oil trading, sank by a dollar to $82.25 per barrel in London.
The dollar declined to 140.44 yen from Tuesday's 141.04 yen. The euro gained to $1.1062 from $1.1045.
On Tuesday, stocks closed higher on Wall Street after more companies reported wider profits for the spring than expected.
General Electric helped lead the market after it reported stronger profit for the latest quarter than analysts expected. That helped offset losses for airline stocks.
The S&P 500 rose 0.3% Tuesday to its highest close since April 2022. The Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 26 points, or 0.1%, and the Nasdaq composite climbed 0.6%.
—-
McDonald reported from Beijing; Ott reported from Silver Spring, Maryland.
Joe Mcdonald And Matt Ott, The Associated Press


NEW YORK (AP) — Stocks are opening mixed as Wall Street waits to hear what the Federal Reserve will do with interest rates later in the afternoon. The S&P 500 was down 0.
NEW YORK (AP) — Stocks are opening mixed as Wall Street waits to hear what the Federal Reserve will do with interest rates later in the afternoon. The S&P 500 was down 0.2% early Wednesday, coming off its best closing level in more than 15 months. The Dow was just barely higher and the Nasdaq composite was down 0.4%. Microsoft lost 3.9% despite reporting stronger profit and revenue than analysts expected. Google’s parent company, Alphabet, helped to limit the market’s losses with a gain of 5.4% after beating analysts’ forecasts by a wider margin than Microsoft did.
THIS IS A BREAKING NEWS UPDATE. AP’s earlier story follows below.
Wall Street ticked modestly lower Wednesday after hitting a 15-month high ahead of what traders hope will be the Federal Reserve's final increase in this interest rate cycle.
Futures for the S&P 500 and the Dow Jones Industrial Average were each about 0.1% lower before the bell.
Later Wednesday, investors expect the Fed to raise its key lending rate by 0.25 percentage points to a 22-year high. They hope the U.S. central bank can manage a “soft landing,” extinguishing inflation while avoiding a recession.
The U.S. job market has been unexpectedly strong since the spring of 2020, when the pandemic wiped out more than 20 million jobs in a matter of weeks. Since then, plentiful jobs and solid wage growth have allowed U.S. households to keep spending, helping to prop up the economy.
Despite evidence that inflation has retreated significantly in recent months, the resilience of the labor market could mean the Fed would still be open to another rate hike before the end of the year.
“There remains a risk that (Fed chair) Jerome Powell could maintain a more hawkish slant than markets would like,” Tim Waterer of KCM Trade said in a report.
It's also a busy stretch for corporate news, with about 30% of the companies in the S&P 500 due to report earnings this week.
Boeing shares rose more than 3% early Wednesday after the jet maker reported a narrower loss than expected as revenue rose. Snap tumbled 18% after the social media app lowered its forecast for the current quarter.
Facebook parent company Meta reports its quarterly earnings after the bell Wednesday.
Meanwhile, traders waited to see how China's ruling Communist Party will carry out its promise to shore up sluggish economic growth. The ruling party has pledged to support entrepreneurs and the struggling real estate industry but has given no details.
That leaves “room for disappointment if the stimulus details were to lack conviction,” Yeap Jun Rong of IG said in a report.
At midday in Europe, the FTSE in London was off 0.6%, the CAC 40 in Paris gave up 1.9% and the DAX in Frankfurt retreated 0.8%.
In Asia, the Shanghai Composite Index lost 0.3% to 3,223.02 and the Nikkei 225 in Tokyo shed less than 0.1% to 32,668.34. The Hang Seng in Hong Kong fell 0.3% to 19,381.15.
The Kospi in Seoul tumbled 1.7% to 2,592.36 while India's Sensex advanced 0.7% to 66,825.31.
Sydney's S&P-ASX 200 rose 0.9% to 7,402.00 after the government reported Australian inflation eased to 5.4% in June from the previous month's 5.5%, reducing pressure on the central bank for another interest rate hike to cool upward pressure on prices.
Bangkok declined while New Zealand and other Southeast Asian markets advanced.
In energy markets, benchmark U.S. crude lost 96 cents to $78.67 per barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The contract rose 89 cents the previous session to $79.63. Brent crude, the price basis for international oil trading, sank by a dollar to $82.25 per barrel in London.
The dollar declined to 140.44 yen from Tuesday's 141.04 yen. The euro gained to $1.1062 from $1.1045.
On Tuesday, stocks closed higher on Wall Street after more companies reported wider profits for the spring than expected.
General Electric helped lead the market after it reported stronger profit for the latest quarter than analysts expected. That helped offset losses for airline stocks.
The S&P 500 rose 0.3% Tuesday to its highest close since April 2022. The Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 26 points, or 0.1%, and the Nasdaq composite climbed 0.6%.
—-
McDonald reported from Beijing; Ott reported from Silver Spring, Maryland.
Joe Mcdonald And Matt Ott, The Associated Press


NEW YORK (AP) — Stocks are opening mixed as Wall Street waits to hear what the Federal Reserve will do with interest rates later in the afternoon. The S&P 500 was down 0.
NEW YORK (AP) — Stocks are opening mixed as Wall Street waits to hear what the Federal Reserve will do with interest rates later in the afternoon. The S&P 500 was down 0.2% early Wednesday, coming off its best closing level in more than 15 months. The Dow was just barely higher and the Nasdaq composite was down 0.4%. Microsoft lost 3.9% despite reporting stronger profit and revenue than analysts expected. Google’s parent company, Alphabet, helped to limit the market’s losses with a gain of 5.4% after beating analysts’ forecasts by a wider margin than Microsoft did.
THIS IS A BREAKING NEWS UPDATE. AP’s earlier story follows below.
Wall Street ticked modestly lower Wednesday after hitting a 15-month high ahead of what traders hope will be the Federal Reserve's final increase in this interest rate cycle.
Futures for the S&P 500 and the Dow Jones Industrial Average were each about 0.1% lower before the bell.
Later Wednesday, investors expect the Fed to raise its key lending rate by 0.25 percentage points to a 22-year high. They hope the U.S. central bank can manage a “soft landing,” extinguishing inflation while avoiding a recession.
The U.S. job market has been unexpectedly strong since the spring of 2020, when the pandemic wiped out more than 20 million jobs in a matter of weeks. Since then, plentiful jobs and solid wage growth have allowed U.S. households to keep spending, helping to prop up the economy.
Despite evidence that inflation has retreated significantly in recent months, the resilience of the labor market could mean the Fed would still be open to another rate hike before the end of the year.
“There remains a risk that (Fed chair) Jerome Powell could maintain a more hawkish slant than markets would like,” Tim Waterer of KCM Trade said in a report.
It's also a busy stretch for corporate news, with about 30% of the companies in the S&P 500 due to report earnings this week.
Boeing shares rose more than 3% early Wednesday after the jet maker reported a narrower loss than expected as revenue rose. Snap tumbled 18% after the social media app lowered its forecast for the current quarter.
Facebook parent company Meta reports its quarterly earnings after the bell Wednesday.
Meanwhile, traders waited to see how China's ruling Communist Party will carry out its promise to shore up sluggish economic growth. The ruling party has pledged to support entrepreneurs and the struggling real estate industry but has given no details.
That leaves “room for disappointment if the stimulus details were to lack conviction,” Yeap Jun Rong of IG said in a report.
At midday in Europe, the FTSE in London was off 0.6%, the CAC 40 in Paris gave up 1.9% and the DAX in Frankfurt retreated 0.8%.
In Asia, the Shanghai Composite Index lost 0.3% to 3,223.02 and the Nikkei 225 in Tokyo shed less than 0.1% to 32,668.34. The Hang Seng in Hong Kong fell 0.3% to 19,381.15.
The Kospi in Seoul tumbled 1.7% to 2,592.36 while India's Sensex advanced 0.7% to 66,825.31.
Sydney's S&P-ASX 200 rose 0.9% to 7,402.00 after the government reported Australian inflation eased to 5.4% in June from the previous month's 5.5%, reducing pressure on the central bank for another interest rate hike to cool upward pressure on prices.
Bangkok declined while New Zealand and other Southeast Asian markets advanced.
In energy markets, benchmark U.S. crude lost 96 cents to $78.67 per barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The contract rose 89 cents the previous session to $79.63. Brent crude, the price basis for international oil trading, sank by a dollar to $82.25 per barrel in London.
The dollar declined to 140.44 yen from Tuesday's 141.04 yen. The euro gained to $1.1062 from $1.1045.
On Tuesday, stocks closed higher on Wall Street after more companies reported wider profits for the spring than expected.
General Electric helped lead the market after it reported stronger profit for the latest quarter than analysts expected. That helped offset losses for airline stocks.
The S&P 500 rose 0.3% Tuesday to its highest close since April 2022. The Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 26 points, or 0.1%, and the Nasdaq composite climbed 0.6%.
—-
McDonald reported from Beijing; Ott reported from Silver Spring, Maryland.
Joe Mcdonald And Matt Ott, The Associated Press


NEW YORK (AP) — Stocks are opening mixed as Wall Street waits to hear what the Federal Reserve will do with interest rates later in the afternoon. The S&P 500 was down 0.
NEW YORK (AP) — Stocks are opening mixed as Wall Street waits to hear what the Federal Reserve will do with interest rates later in the afternoon. The S&P 500 was down 0.2% early Wednesday, coming off its best closing level in more than 15 months. The Dow was just barely higher and the Nasdaq composite was down 0.4%. Microsoft lost 3.9% despite reporting stronger profit and revenue than analysts expected. Google’s parent company, Alphabet, helped to limit the market’s losses with a gain of 5.4% after beating analysts’ forecasts by a wider margin than Microsoft did.
THIS IS A BREAKING NEWS UPDATE. AP’s earlier story follows below.
Wall Street ticked modestly lower Wednesday after hitting a 15-month high ahead of what traders hope will be the Federal Reserve's final increase in this interest rate cycle.
Futures for the S&P 500 and the Dow Jones Industrial Average were each about 0.1% lower before the bell.
Later Wednesday, investors expect the Fed to raise its key lending rate by 0.25 percentage points to a 22-year high. They hope the U.S. central bank can manage a “soft landing,” extinguishing inflation while avoiding a recession.
The U.S. job market has been unexpectedly strong since the spring of 2020, when the pandemic wiped out more than 20 million jobs in a matter of weeks. Since then, plentiful jobs and solid wage growth have allowed U.S. households to keep spending, helping to prop up the economy.
Despite evidence that inflation has retreated significantly in recent months, the resilience of the labor market could mean the Fed would still be open to another rate hike before the end of the year.
“There remains a risk that (Fed chair) Jerome Powell could maintain a more hawkish slant than markets would like,” Tim Waterer of KCM Trade said in a report.
It's also a busy stretch for corporate news, with about 30% of the companies in the S&P 500 due to report earnings this week.
Boeing shares rose more than 3% early Wednesday after the jet maker reported a narrower loss than expected as revenue rose. Snap tumbled 18% after the social media app lowered its forecast for the current quarter.
Facebook parent company Meta reports its quarterly earnings after the bell Wednesday.
Meanwhile, traders waited to see how China's ruling Communist Party will carry out its promise to shore up sluggish economic growth. The ruling party has pledged to support entrepreneurs and the struggling real estate industry but has given no details.
That leaves “room for disappointment if the stimulus details were to lack conviction,” Yeap Jun Rong of IG said in a report.
At midday in Europe, the FTSE in London was off 0.6%, the CAC 40 in Paris gave up 1.9% and the DAX in Frankfurt retreated 0.8%.
In Asia, the Shanghai Composite Index lost 0.3% to 3,223.02 and the Nikkei 225 in Tokyo shed less than 0.1% to 32,668.34. The Hang Seng in Hong Kong fell 0.3% to 19,381.15.
The Kospi in Seoul tumbled 1.7% to 2,592.36 while India's Sensex advanced 0.7% to 66,825.31.
Sydney's S&P-ASX 200 rose 0.9% to 7,402.00 after the government reported Australian inflation eased to 5.4% in June from the previous month's 5.5%, reducing pressure on the central bank for another interest rate hike to cool upward pressure on prices.
Bangkok declined while New Zealand and other Southeast Asian markets advanced.
In energy markets, benchmark U.S. crude lost 96 cents to $78.67 per barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The contract rose 89 cents the previous session to $79.63. Brent crude, the price basis for international oil trading, sank by a dollar to $82.25 per barrel in London.
The dollar declined to 140.44 yen from Tuesday's 141.04 yen. The euro gained to $1.1062 from $1.1045.
On Tuesday, stocks closed higher on Wall Street after more companies reported wider profits for the spring than expected.
General Electric helped lead the market after it reported stronger profit for the latest quarter than analysts expected. That helped offset losses for airline stocks.
The S&P 500 rose 0.3% Tuesday to its highest close since April 2022. The Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 26 points, or 0.1%, and the Nasdaq composite climbed 0.6%.
—-
McDonald reported from Beijing; Ott reported from Silver Spring, Maryland.
Joe Mcdonald And Matt Ott, The Associated Press


NEW YORK (AP) — Stocks are opening mixed as Wall Street waits to hear what the Federal Reserve will do with interest rates later in the afternoon. The S&P 500 was down 0.
NEW YORK (AP) — Stocks are opening mixed as Wall Street waits to hear what the Federal Reserve will do with interest rates later in the afternoon. The S&P 500 was down 0.2% early Wednesday, coming off its best closing level in more than 15 months. The Dow was just barely higher and the Nasdaq composite was down 0.4%. Microsoft lost 3.9% despite reporting stronger profit and revenue than analysts expected. Google’s parent company, Alphabet, helped to limit the market’s losses with a gain of 5.4% after beating analysts’ forecasts by a wider margin than Microsoft did.
THIS IS A BREAKING NEWS UPDATE. AP’s earlier story follows below.
Wall Street ticked modestly lower Wednesday after hitting a 15-month high ahead of what traders hope will be the Federal Reserve's final increase in this interest rate cycle.
Futures for the S&P 500 and the Dow Jones Industrial Average were each about 0.1% lower before the bell.
Later Wednesday, investors expect the Fed to raise its key lending rate by 0.25 percentage points to a 22-year high. They hope the U.S. central bank can manage a “soft landing,” extinguishing inflation while avoiding a recession.
The U.S. job market has been unexpectedly strong since the spring of 2020, when the pandemic wiped out more than 20 million jobs in a matter of weeks. Since then, plentiful jobs and solid wage growth have allowed U.S. households to keep spending, helping to prop up the economy.
Despite evidence that inflation has retreated significantly in recent months, the resilience of the labor market could mean the Fed would still be open to another rate hike before the end of the year.
“There remains a risk that (Fed chair) Jerome Powell could maintain a more hawkish slant than markets would like,” Tim Waterer of KCM Trade said in a report.
It's also a busy stretch for corporate news, with about 30% of the companies in the S&P 500 due to report earnings this week.
Boeing shares rose more than 3% early Wednesday after the jet maker reported a narrower loss than expected as revenue rose. Snap tumbled 18% after the social media app lowered its forecast for the current quarter.
Facebook parent company Meta reports its quarterly earnings after the bell Wednesday.
Meanwhile, traders waited to see how China's ruling Communist Party will carry out its promise to shore up sluggish economic growth. The ruling party has pledged to support entrepreneurs and the struggling real estate industry but has given no details.
That leaves “room for disappointment if the stimulus details were to lack conviction,” Yeap Jun Rong of IG said in a report.
At midday in Europe, the FTSE in London was off 0.6%, the CAC 40 in Paris gave up 1.9% and the DAX in Frankfurt retreated 0.8%.
In Asia, the Shanghai Composite Index lost 0.3% to 3,223.02 and the Nikkei 225 in Tokyo shed less than 0.1% to 32,668.34. The Hang Seng in Hong Kong fell 0.3% to 19,381.15.
The Kospi in Seoul tumbled 1.7% to 2,592.36 while India's Sensex advanced 0.7% to 66,825.31.
Sydney's S&P-ASX 200 rose 0.9% to 7,402.00 after the government reported Australian inflation eased to 5.4% in June from the previous month's 5.5%, reducing pressure on the central bank for another interest rate hike to cool upward pressure on prices.
Bangkok declined while New Zealand and other Southeast Asian markets advanced.
In energy markets, benchmark U.S. crude lost 96 cents to $78.67 per barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The contract rose 89 cents the previous session to $79.63. Brent crude, the price basis for international oil trading, sank by a dollar to $82.25 per barrel in London.
The dollar declined to 140.44 yen from Tuesday's 141.04 yen. The euro gained to $1.1062 from $1.1045.
On Tuesday, stocks closed higher on Wall Street after more companies reported wider profits for the spring than expected.
General Electric helped lead the market after it reported stronger profit for the latest quarter than analysts expected. That helped offset losses for airline stocks.
The S&P 500 rose 0.3% Tuesday to its highest close since April 2022. The Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 26 points, or 0.1%, and the Nasdaq composite climbed 0.6%.
—-
McDonald reported from Beijing; Ott reported from Silver Spring, Maryland.
Joe Mcdonald And Matt Ott, The Associated Press


NEW YORK (AP) — Stocks are opening mixed as Wall Street waits to hear what the Federal Reserve will do with interest rates later in the afternoon. The S&P 500 was down 0.
NEW YORK (AP) — Stocks are opening mixed as Wall Street waits to hear what the Federal Reserve will do with interest rates later in the afternoon. The S&P 500 was down 0.2% early Wednesday, coming off its best closing level in more than 15 months. The Dow was just barely higher and the Nasdaq composite was down 0.4%. Microsoft lost 3.9% despite reporting stronger profit and revenue than analysts expected. Google’s parent company, Alphabet, helped to limit the market’s losses with a gain of 5.4% after beating analysts’ forecasts by a wider margin than Microsoft did.
THIS IS A BREAKING NEWS UPDATE. AP’s earlier story follows below.
Wall Street ticked modestly lower Wednesday after hitting a 15-month high ahead of what traders hope will be the Federal Reserve's final increase in this interest rate cycle.
Futures for the S&P 500 and the Dow Jones Industrial Average were each about 0.1% lower before the bell.
Later Wednesday, investors expect the Fed to raise its key lending rate by 0.25 percentage points to a 22-year high. They hope the U.S. central bank can manage a “soft landing,” extinguishing inflation while avoiding a recession.
The U.S. job market has been unexpectedly strong since the spring of 2020, when the pandemic wiped out more than 20 million jobs in a matter of weeks. Since then, plentiful jobs and solid wage growth have allowed U.S. households to keep spending, helping to prop up the economy.
Despite evidence that inflation has retreated significantly in recent months, the resilience of the labor market could mean the Fed would still be open to another rate hike before the end of the year.
“There remains a risk that (Fed chair) Jerome Powell could maintain a more hawkish slant than markets would like,” Tim Waterer of KCM Trade said in a report.
It's also a busy stretch for corporate news, with about 30% of the companies in the S&P 500 due to report earnings this week.
Boeing shares rose more than 3% early Wednesday after the jet maker reported a narrower loss than expected as revenue rose. Snap tumbled 18% after the social media app lowered its forecast for the current quarter.
Facebook parent company Meta reports its quarterly earnings after the bell Wednesday.
Meanwhile, traders waited to see how China's ruling Communist Party will carry out its promise to shore up sluggish economic growth. The ruling party has pledged to support entrepreneurs and the struggling real estate industry but has given no details.
That leaves “room for disappointment if the stimulus details were to lack conviction,” Yeap Jun Rong of IG said in a report.
At midday in Europe, the FTSE in London was off 0.6%, the CAC 40 in Paris gave up 1.9% and the DAX in Frankfurt retreated 0.8%.
In Asia, the Shanghai Composite Index lost 0.3% to 3,223.02 and the Nikkei 225 in Tokyo shed less than 0.1% to 32,668.34. The Hang Seng in Hong Kong fell 0.3% to 19,381.15.
The Kospi in Seoul tumbled 1.7% to 2,592.36 while India's Sensex advanced 0.7% to 66,825.31.
Sydney's S&P-ASX 200 rose 0.9% to 7,402.00 after the government reported Australian inflation eased to 5.4% in June from the previous month's 5.5%, reducing pressure on the central bank for another interest rate hike to cool upward pressure on prices.
Bangkok declined while New Zealand and other Southeast Asian markets advanced.
In energy markets, benchmark U.S. crude lost 96 cents to $78.67 per barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The contract rose 89 cents the previous session to $79.63. Brent crude, the price basis for international oil trading, sank by a dollar to $82.25 per barrel in London.
The dollar declined to 140.44 yen from Tuesday's 141.04 yen. The euro gained to $1.1062 from $1.1045.
On Tuesday, stocks closed higher on Wall Street after more companies reported wider profits for the spring than expected.
General Electric helped lead the market after it reported stronger profit for the latest quarter than analysts expected. That helped offset losses for airline stocks.
The S&P 500 rose 0.3% Tuesday to its highest close since April 2022. The Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 26 points, or 0.1%, and the Nasdaq composite climbed 0.6%.
—-
McDonald reported from Beijing; Ott reported from Silver Spring, Maryland.
Joe Mcdonald And Matt Ott, The Associated Press


Stocks were lower Wednesday in the countdown to the Federal Reserve's interest-rate decision, as investors weighed Microsoft and Alphabet results.
Stocks opened lower Wednesday in the countdown to the Federal Reserve's interest-rate decision, as investors weighed earnings reports from Microsoft (MSFT) and Alphabet (GOOGL).
The tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite (^IXIC) was down about 0.4%, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average (^DJI) dropped just below the flatline. The S&P 500 (^GSPC) fell around 0.2% as more second-quarter earnings reports rolled in.
The Fed is overwhelmingly expected to hike interest rates in its statement Wednesday, but Chair Jerome Powell's comments will still be closely watched for any hints of what lies ahead for policy.
Next up on the Big Tech earnings docket is Meta (META), expected to report after trading ends. In focus is what the Facebook parent will say about its artificial intelligence efforts, given hopes for the tech helped drive a rally in stocks.
Microsoft and Alphabet's AI updates came under close scrutiny, and both topped estimates in their after-hours reports. But the stocks are headed in opposite directions early Wednesday, with the Google owner on the rise.
Live Updates J Stocks open lower as Fed decision looms Stocks opened in the red as investors digested big tech quarterly earnings results and waited for the Federal Reserve's latest policy decision Wednesday afternoon. The Fed decision is expected at 2 p.m. ET with Fed Chair Jay Powell set to hold a press conference a half hour later. At the market open, the Dow Jones Industrial Average (^DJI) and the S&P 500 (^GSPC) fell about 0.1%, while the tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite (^IXIC) dropped 0.3%.
K Stock futures slip as Fed decision looms The major stock indexes were under pressure on Wednesday as as investors assessed earnings from Microsoft (MSFT) and Alphabet (GOOGL) and looked ahead to the Federal Reserve policy decision later. Futures on the Dow Jones Industrial Average (^DJI) were down 0.21%, while those on the tech-heavy Nasdaq 100 fell 0.25%. S&P 500 (^GSPC) futures fared a bit better, with a drop of 0.14% Show more
Click here for the latest stock market news and in-depth analysis, including events that move stocks
Read the latest financial and business news from Yahoo Finance


Stocks were lower Wednesday in the countdown to the Federal Reserve's interest-rate decision, as investors weighed Microsoft and Alphabet results.
Stocks opened lower Wednesday in the countdown to the Federal Reserve's interest-rate decision, as investors weighed earnings reports from Microsoft (MSFT) and Alphabet (GOOGL).
The tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite (^IXIC) was down about 0.4%, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average (^DJI) dropped just below the flatline. The S&P 500 (^GSPC) fell around 0.2% as more second-quarter earnings reports rolled in.
The Fed is overwhelmingly expected to hike interest rates in its statement Wednesday, but Chair Jerome Powell's comments will still be closely watched for any hints of what lies ahead for policy.
THE TAKEAWAY Stocks were lower Wednesday in the countdown to the Federal Reserve's interest-rate decision, as investors weighed Microsoft and Alphabet results.
Next up on the Big Tech earnings docket is Meta (META), expected to report after trading ends. In focus is what the Facebook parent will say about its artificial intelligence efforts, given hopes for the tech helped drive a rally in stocks.
Microsoft and Alphabet's AI updates came under close scrutiny, and both topped estimates in their after-hours reports. But the stocks are headed in opposite directions early Wednesday, with the Google owner on the rise.
Click here for the latest stock market news and in-depth analysis, including events that move stocks
Read the latest financial and business news from Yahoo Finance


The Federal Reserve’s expected move Wednesday to raise interest rates for the 11th time could once again send ripple effects across the economy.
NEW YORK (AP) — The Federal Reserve’s expected move Wednesday to raise interest rates for the 11th time could once again send ripple effects across the economy.
Mortgage rates, which have surged since the Fed began lifting rates in March 2022, could rise further. So could rates on credit cards and some business loans.
Perhaps no one has felt the pain more than car buyers. It's not just that sticker prices are way up. Or that lenders have tightened credit standards. On top of all that, steadily higher auto loan rates have elbowed many would-be buyers out of the market.
Used cars for sale are parked roadside at an auto lot in Philadelphia. (AP Photo/Matt Rourke)
Consider: A study by the New York Federal Reserve has found that 14% of applicants for auto loans were rejected over the past year — the highest such proportion since the New York Fed began tracking the figure in 2013 — up from 9% in February.
Auto-loan applicants, of course, aren't the only borrowers being turned down in larger numbers these days. In that same June 2022-June 2023 period, applicant rejections for credit cards, mortgages, mortgage refinancings and higher credit card limits all rose, too, according to the New York Fed. Overall, the rejection rate for credit applicants reached 21.8 percent, the highest level since June 2018.
Some of those rejections reflect the subpar credit of loan applicants. But some are a direct consequence of the Fed's rate increases — the most aggressive in four decades. Those hikes, in turn, have made high-cost purchases out of reach for some.
How will borrowers be affected by the Fed's latest move?
Credit card rates are at or near all-time peaks, and mortgage rates have more than doubled in two years.
“No one should expect them to stop rising anytime soon,” said Matt Schulz, chief credit analyst of LendingTree. “Perhaps the scariest thing of all for folks with credit card debt is that interest rates are actually rising more quickly than the Fed is forcing them to.”
The average Annual Percentage Rate (APR) on a currently held credit card that charges interest is 22.16%, according to the latest data from the Fed. That’s up about 6 percentage points from the average rate in the first quarter of 2022. The average APR on a new credit card offer is 24.24%, the highest rate since LendingTree began tracking it in 2019.
Story continues
Whenever possible, Schulz recommends that card users consider asking their issuers to lower their APR. LendingTree recently concluded that a majority of cardholders who had asked their card issuers for a lower rate received one. The average reduction was significant — 6 percentage points.
“It is well worth your time to make that call,” Schulz said.
I need to buy a car. What's the outlook for auto loans?
Many people were already having trouble affording new vehicles before Wednesday’s expected quarter-point hike. The average price paid for a new vehicle last month was nearly $48,000 — about 25% above the pre-pandemic average. Used vehicle prices have jumped by even more: The average one now costs nearly $30,000, a stinging 45% above what it was before the pandemic.
In some cases, even people with good credit are being rejected for auto loans. The problem for them is that with vehicle prices up sharply, the additional burden of higher loan rates — from 4.5% on average in March 2022 to 7.2% in June — has made monthly payments unaffordable.
“I think people are just not able to qualify for the payments,” says Jessica Caldwell, executive director of insights for Edmunds.com.
The average monthly auto payment last month, she said, was $736. Over the life of an an average loan — just under six years — a typical borrower is paying nearly $9,000 in interest.
David Kelleher, who owns David Dodge-Chrysler-Jeep-Ram in Glen Mills, Pennsylvania, said he has seen loan rejections rise even in his affluent Philadelphia suburb, though not as much as they have nationally. The larger loan sums that borrowers are now financing, along with a small uptick in delinquencies, have made lenders more cautious.
“I think that’s probably making them tighten the reins a little bit,” he said.
Kelleher said he hopes the Fed stops raising rates after this week, given that vehicle prices, a key component of inflation, have begun to ease. Prices had skyrocketed in 2021, a result of high demand as the economy roared out of the pandemic recession and clogged supply chains caused a severe shortage of vehicles for sale.
“These interest rates," Kelleher said, “are really starting to hurt us.”
Still, Caldwell said she doesn't expect the Fed's latest quarter-point hike in its benchmark rate to significantly affect auto loan rates. With factories cranking out more autos and vehicle availability improving, she expects automakers to spend more to subsidize loan rates to help fuel sales.
Despite the rising cost burden, auto sales have remained relatively solid as prices have eased slightly and the supply of vehicles has grown: For the past two months, sales have hit an annual rate of 15 million.
What's in store for savers?
That's where the good news lies: Yields on savings accounts and certificates of deposit (CDs) have reached their highest levels in a decade, said Ken Tumin, a banking expert and founder of DepositAccounts.com. The average online savings account yield is 4.08%, up from 3.31% at the start of this year, according to DepositAccounts.com.
Even juicier yields are available from CDs. The average online one-year CD yield is now 4.89%, up from 4.37% on Jan. 1 and from a puny 1.90% one year ago. The average online five-year CD yield is 3.93%, down from 4.04% on Jan. 1, but up from 2.89% a year ago.
All that said, those richer yields might not last if price pressures across the economy ease further.
“If we continue to get good news on inflation in the coming months," Tumin said, “expect long-term CD rates to drift downward.”
What about mortgages?
If the economy does cool, Jacob Channel, senior economist for LendingTree, predicts that mortgage rates will end the year closer to 6% than to 7%. The current national average for a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage, according to Freddie Mac, is 6.78%.
A home under construction at a development in Eagleville, Pa. AP Photo/Matt Rourke, File)
Rates have fluctuated sharply this year. The average 30-year fixed rate, which had pierced 7% back in October, fell to just above 6% in early February before surging back to 6.96% in mid-July. On the heels of better-than-expected inflation data for June, the average mortgage rate has eased a bit again.
“This goes to show just how much mortgage rates can vary from week to week and how hard it can be to truly determine what trend they’re going to follow in the long term,” Channel said. “It’s likely that mortgage rates will continue to fluctuate in the face of the uncertainty that permeates today’s economy.”
Is the Fed managing to defeat inflation?
The Fed has clearly achieved progress. Inflation, which peaked above 9% last year, was just 3% in June compared with a year earlier. That's thanks, in part, to easing prices for gasoline, airline fares, used cars and groceries.
Even so, current measures of inflation remain above the Fed’s 2% target. The result is that many households are still being squeezed by higher prices and struggling to afford basic necessities. Reducing inflation back to the Fed’s target level will require more time.
And that means high rates on consumer and business loans are likely to remain in place well into 2024.
___
Krisher contributed from Detroit.
___
The Associated Press receives support from Charles Schwab Foundation for educational and explanatory reporting to improve financial literacy. The independent foundation is separate from Charles Schwab and Co. Inc. The AP is solely responsible for its journalism.


The Federal Reserve’s expected move Wednesday to raise interest rates for the 11th time could once again send ripple effects across the economy.
FILE - Cars for sale line the road at a used auto dealership in Philadelphia, Thursday, Sept. 29, 2022. The Federal Reserves expected move Wednesday, July 26, 2023, to raise interest rates for the 11th time could once again send ripple effects across the economy. (AP Photo/Matt Rourke, FILE)
NEW YORK – The Federal Reserve’s expected move Wednesday to raise interest rates for the 11th time could once again send ripple effects across the economy.
Mortgage rates, which have surged since the Fed began lifting rates in March 2022, could rise further. So could rates on credit cards and some business loans.
Perhaps no one has felt the pain more than car buyers. It's not just that sticker prices are way up. Or that lenders have tightened credit standards. On top of all that, steadily higher auto loan rates have elbowed many would-be buyers out of the market.
Consider: A study by the New York Federal Reserve has found that 14% of applicants for auto loans were rejected over the past year — the highest such proportion since the New York Fed began tracking the figure in 2013 — up from 9% in February.
Auto-loan applicants, of course, aren't the only borrowers being turned down in larger numbers these days. In that same June 2022-June 2023 period, applicant rejections for credit cards, mortgages, mortgage refinancings and higher credit card limits all rose, too, according to the New York Fed. Overall, the rejection rate for credit applicants reached 21.8 percent, the highest level since June 2018.
Some of those rejections reflect the subpar credit of loan applicants. But some are a direct consequence of the Fed's rate increases — the most aggressive in four decades. Those hikes, in turn, have made high-cost purchases out of reach for some.
HOW WILL BORROWERS BE AFFECTED BY THE FED'S LATEST MOVE?
Credit card rates are at or near all-time peaks, and mortgage rates have more than doubled in two years.
“No one should expect them to stop rising anytime soon,” said Matt Schulz, chief credit analyst of LendingTree. “Perhaps the scariest thing of all for folks with credit card debt is that interest rates are actually rising more quickly than the Fed is forcing them to.”
The average Annual Percentage Rate (APR) on a currently held credit card that charges interest is 22.16%, according to the latest data from the Fed. That’s up about 6 percentage points from the average rate in the first quarter of 2022. The average APR on a new credit card offer is 24.24%, the highest rate since LendingTree began tracking it in 2019.
Whenever possible, Schulz recommends that card users consider asking their issuers to lower their APR. LendingTree recently concluded that a majority of cardholders who had asked their card issuers for a lower rate received one. The average reduction was significant — 6 percentage points.
“It is well worth your time to make that call,” Schulz said.
I NEED TO BUY A CAR. WHAT’S THE OUTLOOK FOR AUTO LOANS?
Many people were already having trouble affording new vehicles before Wednesday’s expected quarter-point hike. The average price paid for a new vehicle last month was nearly $48,000 — about 25% above the pre-pandemic average. Used vehicle prices have jumped by even more: The average one now costs nearly $30,000, a stinging 45% above what it was before the pandemic.
In some cases, even people with good credit are being rejected for auto loans. The problem for them is that with vehicle prices up sharply, the additional burden of higher loan rates — from 4.5% on average in March 2022 to 7.2% in June — has made monthly payments unaffordable.
“I think people are just not able to qualify for the payments,” said Jessica Caldwell, executive director of insights for Edmunds.com.
The average monthly auto payment last month, she said, was $736. Over the life of an an average loan — just under six years — a typical borrower is paying nearly $9,000 in interest.
David Kelleher, who owns David Dodge-Chrysler-Jeep-Ram in Glen Mills, Pennsylvania, said he has seen loan rejections rise even in his affluent Philadelphia suburb, though not as much as they have nationally. The larger loan sums that borrowers are now financing, along with a small uptick in delinquencies, have made lenders more cautious.
“I think that’s probably making them tighten the reins a little bit,” he said.
Kelleher said he hopes the Fed stops raising rates after this week, given that vehicle prices, a key component of inflation, have begun to ease. Prices had skyrocketed in 2021, a result of high demand as the economy roared out of the pandemic recession and clogged supply chains caused a severe shortage of vehicles for sale.
“These interest rates," Kelleher said, “are really starting to hurt us.”
Martin Schwartz, founder and CEO of Vehicles for Change, a nonprofit that helps low-income families obtain cars, said that requests for vehicles from people who don’t qualify for loans has surged in the past year. He attributes it, in part, to the higher interest rates.
“The impact on families living in poverty is exponential,” Schwartz said. “If they can even afford a car at the retail prices used cars are selling at, interest rates are going to kill them. If they can afford the car and squeeze the payments out with the interest rates, the repairs are gonna kill them. The combination of those things means we’re getting more and more requests from all over the country.”
Caldwell, of Edmunds.com, said she doesn’t expect the Fed’s latest quarter-point hike in its benchmark rate to significantly affect current auto loan rates. With factories cranking out more autos and vehicle availability improving, she expects automakers to spend more to subsidize loan rates to help fuel sales.
Despite the rising cost burden, auto sales have remained relatively solid as prices have eased slightly and the supply of vehicles has grown: For the past two months, sales have hit an annual rate of 15 million.
WHAT’S IN STORE FOR SAVERS?
That's where the good news lies: Yields on savings accounts and certificates of deposit (CDs) have reached their highest levels in a decade, said Ken Tumin, a banking expert and founder of DepositAccounts.com. The average online savings account yield is 4.08%, up from 3.31% at the start of this year, according to DepositAccounts.com.
Even juicier yields are available from CDs. The average online one-year CD yield is now 4.89%, up from 4.37% on Jan. 1 and from a puny 1.90% one year ago. The average online five-year CD yield is 3.93%, down from 4.04% on Jan. 1, but up from 2.89% a year ago.
All that said, those richer yields might not last if price pressures across the economy ease further.
“If we continue to get good news on inflation in the coming months," Tumin said, “expect long-term CD rates to drift downward.”
WHAT ABOUT MORTGAGES?
If the economy does cool, Jacob Channel, senior economist for LendingTree, predicts that mortgage rates will end the year closer to 6% than to 7%. The current national average for a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage, according to Freddie Mac, is 6.78%.
Rates have fluctuated sharply this year. The average 30-year fixed rate, which had pierced 7% back in October, fell to just above 6% in early February before surging back to 6.96% in mid-July. On the heels of better-than-expected inflation data for June, the average mortgage rate has eased a bit again.
“This goes to show just how much mortgage rates can vary from week to week and how hard it can be to truly determine what trend they’re going to follow in the long term,” Channel said. “It’s likely that mortgage rates will continue to fluctuate in the face of the uncertainty that permeates today’s economy.”
IS THE FED MANAGING TO DEFEAT INFLATION?
The Fed has clearly achieved progress. Inflation, which peaked above 9% last year, was just 3% in June compared with a year earlier. That's thanks, in part, to easing prices for gasoline, airline fares, used cars and groceries.
Even so, current measures of inflation remain above the Fed’s 2% target. The result is that many households are still being squeezed by higher prices and struggling to afford basic necessities. Reducing inflation back to the Fed’s target level will require more time.
And that means high rates on consumer and business loans are likely to remain in place well into 2024.
___
Krisher contributed from Detroit.
___
The Associated Press receives support from Charles Schwab Foundation for educational and explanatory reporting to improve financial literacy. The independent foundation is separate from Charles Schwab and Co. Inc. The AP is solely responsible for its journalism.


As with its previous rate hikes, Wednesday’s increase would likely further elevate the costs of mortgages, auto loans, credit cards and business borrowing
Open this photo in gallery: The Federal Reserve building, in Washington, on May 4, 2022.JIM WATSON/AFP/Getty Images
Even after inflation has steadily eased this year, the Federal Reserve’s policy-makers still think prices are rising too fast and are almost certain to lift their key interest rate by a quarter-point on Wednesday.
A rate increase, the 11th in 17 months, would raise the Fed’s short-term rate to roughly 5.3 per cent, the highest level since 2001. As with its previous rate hikes, Wednesday’s increase would likely further elevate the costs of mortgages, auto loans, credit cards and business borrowing.
Another hike is widely expected despite a run of encouraging news that has sent stock prices steadily higher, boosted consumer confidence and brightened hopes that the Fed can pull off a difficult “soft landing,” in which inflation would continue to slow toward the Fed’s 2 per cent target without sending the economy tumbling into a recession.
Inflation amounted to just 3 per cent in June compared with a year earlier, down drastically from a peak of 9.1 per cent in June of last year. Consumers are still spending more – crowding airplanes, travelling overseas and flocking to concerts and movie theatres. Businesses keep hiring, and the unemployment rate has stayed near half-century lows.
Yet the Fed’s expected rate hike Wednesday, after it chose to skip a rate increase last month, points to the dangers that remain. Underlying inflation is still well above the Fed’s target. A price gauge that excludes volatile food and energy costs, known as “core” inflation, rose 4.8 per cent in June compared with 12 months earlier. As long as such measures stay elevated, Fed officials will feel compelled to keep rates high – and possibly raise them further.
In June, the policy-makers signalled that they expected to impose two more increases, including Wednesday’s expected hike. Some economists have said they worry that too many hikes could trigger a painful recession.
The big question that Chair Jerome Powell will likely face at a news conference Wednesday is whether and when the Fed may decide to stop lifting rates. Few expect Powell to tip his hand. Instead, he will probably stress that the Fed’s future rate decisions will hinge on what signs the economy sends between now and its next meeting Sept. 19-20.
By then, the policy-makers will have much more information. In particular, the government will have released two more monthly inflation reports, two more reports on hiring and unemployment and additional data on consumer spending and wages.
And in late August, Powell will speak at the annual gathering of central bankers in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, which is typically a high-profile opportunity to signal shifts in Fed policy or strategy.
“He’s going to save a lot of what he’s going to say for Jackson Hole,” said Ellen Meade, a Duke University economics professor and former top Fed economist.
Though Powell has stressed that interest rate decisions will be made on a meeting-by-meeting basis, some analysts think the Fed will end up forgoing a hike at its September meeting, similar to its decision to skip an increase in June. The officials would then have the option of imposing a quarter-point hike at their following meeting in November.
Yet by then, most economists think inflation – and the economy – will have cooled enough that another hike won’t be needed. If so, Wednesday’s rate increase would end up being the final one this year.
The Fed started tightening credit before many of its counterparts in other developed countries. But most others are now following a similar path. The European Central Bank is expected to announce its own quarter-point rate hike on Thursday. Though inflation has declined in the 20 countries that use the euro, it remains higher there than in the United States.
The Bank of Japan is expected to keep its policies unchanged when it meets next week even though prices are creeping higher in that country after roughly two decades of declining prices. The Bank of England has been among the most aggressive in Europe, having raised its key rate last month by a surprise half-point to a 15-year high of 5 per cent. In the U.K., inflation, which has stayed persistently high, reached 8.7 per cent in May from a year earlier.
On Friday, the U.S. government is expected to release fresh data on consumer spending in June and an update on the Fed’s preferred inflation gauge. The inflation measure is expected to slow to just 3 per cent compared with a year earlier. That would be the same figure most recently reported for the government’s better-known consumer price index. And it would be down sharply from a 3.8 per cent year-over-year increase in May.


Global stock markets are lower after Wall Street hit a 15-month high ahead of what traders hope will be the Federal Reserve’s final increase in this interest rate cycle.
BEIJING (AP) — Global stock markets were lower Wednesday after Wall Street hit a 15-month high ahead of what traders hope will be the Federal Reserve’s final increase in this interest rate cycle.
London and Paris opened lower. Shanghai, Tokyo and Hong Kong. Oil prices retreated.
Wall Street’s benchmark S&P 500 index rose 0.3% on Tuesday after companies reported bigger profits than expected.
On Wednesday, investors expect the Fed to raise its key lending rate by 0.25 percentage points to a 22-year high. They hope the U.S. central bank can manage a “soft landing,” extinguishing inflation while avoiding a recession.
“There remains a risk that (Fed chair) Jerome Powell could maintain a more hawkish slant than markets would like,” Tim Waterer of KCM Trade said in a report. “With the labor market remaining tight, the Fed chairman will likely want to keep all options open for further tightening.”
Meanwhile, traders waited to see how China’s ruling Communist Party will carry out its promise to shore up sluggish economic growth. The ruling party has pledged to support entrepreneurs and the struggling real estate industry but has given no details.
That leaves “room for disappointment if the stimulus details were to lack conviction,” Yeap Jun Rong of IG said in a report.
In early trading, the FTSE in London was off 0.1% at 7,684.72. The CAC 40 in Paris gave up 0.9% to 7,351.28 and the DAX in Frankfurt retreated 0.2% to 16,183.28.
On Wall Street, the S&P 500 future was up less than 0.1%. That for the Dow Jones Industrial Average was off less than 0.1%.
On Tuesday, the Dow gained 0.1% and the Nasdaq composite climbed 0.6%.
In Asia, the Shanghai Composite Index lost 0.3% to 3,223.02 and the Nikkei 225 in Tokyo shed less than 0.1% to 32,668.34. The Hang Seng in Hong Kong fell 0.3% to 19,381.15.
The Kospi in Seoul tumbled 1.7% to 2,592.36 while India’s Sensex advanced 0.7% to 66,825.31.
Sydney’s S&P-ASX 200 rose 0.9% to 7,402.00 after the government reported Australian inflation eased to 5.4% in June from the previous month’s 5.5%, reducing pressure on the central bank for another interest rate hike to cool upward pressure on prices.
Bangkok declined while New Zealand and other Southeast Asian markets advanced.
On Wall Street, General Electric led gains with a 6.3% rally on Tuesday after it reported better-than-expected quarterly profit and raised its forecasts for full-year revenue and profit.
Another industrial giant, 3M, rose 5.3% after the maker of Scotch-Brite and Post-It raised its forecast for annual profit. Home builder PulteGroup climbed 6.2% after reporting stronger profit for the spring than expected.
Alaska Air Group fell 9.7% despite reporting stronger profit and revenue. Analysts said investors may have been disappointed with its financial forecasts for the current quarter.
About 30% of the companies in the S&P 500 are due to report earnings this week.
The U.S. job market has been unexpectedly strong, which has allowed U.S. households to keep spending and propping up the economy. A report Tuesday showed U.S. consumer confidence rose by more than economists expected.
In energy markets, benchmark U.S. crude lost 16 cents to $79.47 per barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The contract rose 89 cents the previous session to $79.63. Brent crude, the price basis for international oil trading, sank 14 cents to $83.11 per barrel in London. It gained 90 cents the previous session to $83.64.
The dollar declined to 140.50 yen from Tuesday’s 141.04 yen. The euro gained to $1.1070 from $1.1045.


The Federal Reserve’s expected move Wednesday to raise interest rates for the 11th time could once again send ripple effects across the economy.
The Federal Reserve’s expected move Wednesday to raise interest rates for the 11th time could once again send ripple effects across the economy.
Mortgage rates, which have surged since the Fed began lifting rates in March 2022, could rise further. So could rates on credit cards and some business loans.
Perhaps no one has felt the pain more than car buyers. It's not just that sticker prices are way up. Or that lenders have tightened credit standards. On top of all that, steadily higher auto loan rates have elbowed many would-be buyers out of the market.
Consider: A study by the New York Federal Reserve has found that 14% of applicants for auto loans were rejected over the past year — the highest such proportion since the New York Fed began tracking the figure in 2013 — up from 9% in February.
Get Boston local news, weather forecasts, lifestyle and entertainment stories to your inbox. Sign up for NBC Boston’s newsletters.
Auto-loan applicants, of course, aren't the only borrowers being turned down in larger numbers these days. In that same June 2022-June 2023 period, applicant rejections for credit cards, mortgages, mortgage refinancings and higher credit card limits all rose, too, according to the New York Fed. Overall, the rejection rate for credit applicants reached 21.8 percent, the highest level since June 2018.
Some of those rejections reflect the subpar credit of loan applicants. But some are a direct consequence of the Fed's rate increases — the most aggressive in four decades. Those hikes, in turn, have made high-cost purchases out of reach for some.
HOW WILL BORROWERS BE AFFECTED BY THE FED'S LATEST MOVE?
Credit card rates are at or near all-time peaks, and mortgage rates have more than doubled in two years.
“No one should expect them to stop rising anytime soon,” said Matt Schulz, chief credit analyst of LendingTree. “Perhaps the scariest thing of all for folks with credit card debt is that interest rates are actually rising more quickly than the Fed is forcing them to.”
The average Annual Percentage Rate (APR) on a currently held credit card that charges interest is 22.16%, according to the latest data from the Fed. That’s up about 6 percentage points from the average rate in the first quarter of 2022. The average APR on a new credit card offer is 24.24%, the highest rate since LendingTree began tracking it in 2019.
Whenever possible, Schulz recommends that card users consider asking their issuers to lower their APR. LendingTree recently concluded that a majority of cardholders who had asked their card issuers for a lower rate received one. The average reduction was significant — 6 percentage points.
“It is well worth your time to make that call,” Schulz said.
If you have bad credit, it can be difficult to get a loan. In part 2 of our Surviving Capitalism series, we break down how to find your credit score and what you can do to raise it.
I NEED TO BUY A CAR. WHAT’S THE OUTLOOK FOR AUTO LOANS?
Many people were already having trouble affording new vehicles before Wednesday’s expected quarter-point hike. The average price paid for a new vehicle last month was nearly $48,000 — about 25% above the pre-pandemic average. Used vehicle prices have jumped by even more: The average one now costs nearly $30,000, a stinging 45% above what it was before the pandemic.
In some cases, even people with good credit are being rejected for auto loans. The problem for them is that with vehicle prices up sharply, the additional burden of higher loan rates — from 4.5% on average in March 2022 to 7.2% in June — has made monthly payments unaffordable.
“I think people are just not able to qualify for the payments,” says Jessica Caldwell, executive director of insights for Edmunds.com.
The average monthly auto payment last month, she said, was $736. Over the life of an an average loan — just under six years — a typical borrower is paying nearly $9,000 in interest.
David Kelleher, who owns David Dodge-Chrysler-Jeep-Ram in Glen Mills, Pennsylvania, said he has seen loan rejections rise even in his affluent Philadelphia suburb, though not as much as they have nationally. The larger loan sums that borrowers are now financing, along with a small uptick in delinquencies, have made lenders more cautious.
“I think that’s probably making them tighten the reins a little bit,” he said.
Kelleher said he hopes the Fed stops raising rates after this week, given that vehicle prices, a key component of inflation, have begun to ease. Prices had skyrocketed in 2021, a result of high demand as the economy roared out of the pandemic recession and clogged supply chains caused a severe shortage of vehicles for sale.
“These interest rates," Kelleher said, “are really starting to hurt us.”
Still, Caldwell said she doesn't expect the Fed's latest quarter-point hike in its benchmark rate to significantly affect auto loan rates. With factories cranking out more autos and vehicle availability improving, she expects automakers to spend more to subsidize loan rates to help fuel sales.
Despite the rising cost burden, auto sales have remained relatively solid as prices have eased slightly and the supply of vehicles has grown: For the past two months, sales have hit an annual rate of 15 million.
Do your homework, and follow this advice from NBC 7's Consumer Bob.
WHAT’S IN STORE FOR SAVERS?
That's where the good news lies: Yields on savings accounts and certificates of deposit (CDs) have reached their highest levels in a decade, said Ken Tumin, a banking expert and founder of DepositAccounts.com. The average online savings account yield is 4.08%, up from 3.31% at the start of this year, according to DepositAccounts.com.
Even juicier yields are available from CDs. The average online one-year CD yield is now 4.89%, up from 4.37% on Jan. 1 and from a puny 1.90% one year ago. The average online five-year CD yield is 3.93%, down from 4.04% on Jan. 1, but up from 2.89% a year ago.
All that said, those richer yields might not last if price pressures across the economy ease further.
“If we continue to get good news on inflation in the coming months," Tumin said, “expect long-term CD rates to drift downward.”
WHAT ABOUT MORTGAGES?
If the economy does cool, Jacob Channel, senior economist for LendingTree, predicts that mortgage rates will end the year closer to 6% than to 7%. The current national average for a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage, according to Freddie Mac, is 6.78%.
Rates have fluctuated sharply this year. The average 30-year fixed rate, which had pierced 7% back in October, fell to just above 6% in early February before surging back to 6.96% in mid-July. On the heels of better-than-expected inflation data for June, the average mortgage rate has eased a bit again.
“This goes to show just how much mortgage rates can vary from week to week and how hard it can be to truly determine what trend they’re going to follow in the long term,” Channel said. “It’s likely that mortgage rates will continue to fluctuate in the face of the uncertainty that permeates today’s economy.”
Interest rates take the elevator up, and the stairs down. CNBC's Bertha Coombs explains how changes in the interest affect saving money for a down payment and when you should get a mortgage for a home.
IS THE FED MANAGING TO DEFEAT INFLATION?
The Fed has clearly achieved progress. Inflation, which peaked above 9% last year, was just 3% in June compared with a year earlier. That's thanks, in part, to easing prices for gasoline, airline fares, used cars and groceries.
Even so, current measures of inflation remain above the Fed’s 2% target. The result is that many households are still being squeezed by higher prices and struggling to afford basic necessities. Reducing inflation back to the Fed’s target level will require more time.
And that means high rates on consumer and business loans are likely to remain in place well into 2024.
___
Krisher contributed from Detroit.


U.S. inflation has fallen for 12 months. But there are still red flags in the economy. That means the Federal Reserve is going to raise interest rates again.
U.S. inflation has now declined for 12-straight months.
But in June, consumer prices increased 3% year-on-year. While that's the lowest the annual inflation rate has been in more than two years, it's still too high for the Federal Reserve, which is looking to wrestle increases down to about 2%.
To help move things in the right direction, analysts say the central bank will raise its key federal funds rate Wednesday by 0.25% to more than 5%. That would be the highest level since 2007.
By raising its interest rates, the Federal Reserve hopes to make borrowing and investing more expensive, thereby reducing overall demand for goods, services, and labor in the economy.
"Inflation remains stubbornly high," said Greg McBride, senior vice president and chief financial analyst for Bankrate. "The economy has been remarkably resilient, the labor market is still robust, but that may be contributing to the stubbornly high inflation," McBride said. "So Fed has to pump the brakes a bit more."
The Federal Reserve is in charge of balancing unemployment and inflation. Right now, the unemployment rate, at 3.6%, remains historically low.
The Federal Reserve believes it can slow the economy to reduce inflation without causing people to lose their jobs en masse.
Rather than put workers directly out of a job, McBride said, the Fed is instead looking to reduce the overall number of job openings relative to unemployed workers. Before the pandemic, there was about one unemployed person per job opening; today there is less than one.
"The labor market is still out of whack," McBride said. "That can contribute to inflationary pressures."
While the overall inflation rate has come down, there are key categories of consumer-focused services that have not. In particular, one measure of what has come to be known as "supercore" inflation, which excludes the price of food, gas, and shelter, has been stuck at a 4% annual rate of increase since the first quarter of 2021, according to calculations from the Federal Reserve Board of San Francisco.
This measure includes items like professional and personal care services, among the items on which Americans continue to spend heavily.
The spending, in turn, is creating more demand for workers and subsequently increasing pay.
“The place where we haven’t really seen much progress is in non-housing services,” Fed Chair Jay Powell said this month at a European Central Bank event in Portugal, according to Bloomberg News. “That’s where we’re not seeing a lot of progress yet, and the reason is — one explanation for it is — that labor costs are really the biggest factor by far in most parts of that sector.”
Of course, higher pay is good for workers — and for the first time in the post-pandemic period, data showed inflation-adjusted wages outpacing inflation.
But a rapidly-rising pace of wage increases concerns the Fed because it is linked to higher inflation. Businesses will raise prices if they believe their customers have more money to spend.
Analysts for the Barclays financial group called this a "self-reinforcing loop between employment, income, and spending," in a note to clients earlier this month.
"We expect the [Federal Reserve] to remain focused on slowing the job market to pave the way for a sustained return to the 2% inflation target," the analysts wrote.


Stock futures slid Wednesday in the countdown to the Federal Reserve's interest-rate decision, as investors weighed Microsoft and Alphabet results.
Stock futures slid Wednesday in the countdown to the Federal Reserve's interest-rate decision, as investors weighed earnings reports from Microsoft (MSFT) and Alphabet (GOOGL).
Futures on the tech-heavy Nasdaq 100 were down about 0.3%, while those on the Dow Jones Industrial Average (^DJI) dropped 0.2%. S&P 500 (^GSPC) futures fell around 0.1%, as more second-quarter earnings reports rolled in.
The Fed is overwhelmingly expected to hike interest rates in its statement Wednesday, but Chair Jay Powell's comments will still be closely watched for any hints of what lies ahead for policy.
Next up on the Big Tech earnings docket is Meta (META), expected to report after trading ends. In focus is what the Facebook parent will say about its artificial intelligence efforts, given hopes for the tech helped drive a rally in stocks.
Microsoft and Alphabet's AI updates came under close scrutiny, and both topped estimates in their after-hours reports. But the stocks are headed in opposite directions early Wednesday, with the Google owner on the rise.
Live Updates K Stock futures slip as Fed decision looms The major stock indexes were under pressure on Wednesday as as investors assessed earnings from Microsoft (MSFT) and Alphabet (GOOGL) and looked ahead to the Federal Reserve policy decision later. Futures on the Dow Jones Industrial Average (^DJI) were down 0.21%, while those on the tech-heavy Nasdaq 100 fell 0.25%. S&P 500 (^GSPC) futures fared a bit better, with a drop of 0.14% Show more
Click here for the latest stock market news and in-depth analysis, including events that move stocks
Read the latest financial and business news from Yahoo Finance


Stock futures slid Wednesday in the countdown to the Federal Reserve's interest-rate decision, as investors weighed Microsoft and Alphabet results.
Stock futures slid Wednesday in the countdown to the Federal Reserve's interest-rate decision, as investors weighed earnings reports from Microsoft (MSFT) and Alphabet (GOOGL).
Futures on the tech-heavy Nasdaq 100 were down about 0.3%, while those on the Dow Jones Industrial Average (^DJI) dropped 0.2%. S&P 500 (^GSPC) futures fell around 0.1%, as more second-quarter earnings reports rolled in.
The Fed is overwhelmingly expected to hike interest rates in its statement Wednesday, but Chair Jay Powell's comments will still be closely watched for any hints of what lies ahead for policy.
Next up on the Big Tech earnings docket is Meta (META), expected to report after trading ends. In focus is what the Facebook parent will say about its artificial intelligence efforts, given hopes for the tech helped drive a rally in stocks.
Microsoft and Alphabet's AI updates came under close scrutiny, and both topped estimates in their after-hours reports. But the stocks are headed in opposite directions early Wednesday, with the Google owner on the rise.
Live Updates K Stock futures slip as Fed decision looms The major stock indexes were under pressure on Wednesday as as investors assessed earnings from Microsoft (MSFT) and Alphabet (GOOGL) and looked ahead to the Federal Reserve policy decision later. Futures on the Dow Jones Industrial Average (^DJI) were down 0.21%, while those on the tech-heavy Nasdaq 100 fell 0.25%. S&P 500 (^GSPC) futures fared a bit better, with a drop of 0.14% Show more
Click here for the latest stock market news and in-depth analysis, including events that move stocks
Read the latest financial and business news from Yahoo Finance


Stock futures slid Wednesday in the countdown to the Federal Reserve's interest-rate decision, as investors weighed Microsoft and Alphabet results.
Stock futures slid Wednesday in the countdown to the Federal Reserve's interest-rate decision, as investors weighed earnings reports from Microsoft (MSFT) and Alphabet (GOOGL).
Futures on the tech-heavy Nasdaq 100 were down about 0.3%, while those on the Dow Jones Industrial Average (^DJI) dropped 0.2%. S&P 500 (^GSPC) futures fell around 0.1%, as more second-quarter earnings reports rolled in.
The Fed is overwhelmingly expected to hike interest rates in its statement Wednesday, but Chair Jay Powell's comments will still be closely watched for any hints of what lies ahead for policy.
Next up on the Big Tech earnings docket is Meta (META), expected to report after trading ends. In focus is what the Facebook parent will say about its artificial intelligence efforts, given hopes for the tech helped drive a rally in stocks.
Microsoft and Alphabet's AI updates came under close scrutiny, and both topped estimates in their after-hours reports. But the stocks are headed in opposite directions early Wednesday, with the Google owner on the rise.
Click here for the latest stock market news and in-depth analysis, including events that move stocks
Read the latest financial and business news from Yahoo Finance


Brent crude futures was down 85 cents to $82.79 a barrel by 1026 GMT, while U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude dropped 81 cents to $78.82
Oil prices edged lower on Wednesday, with investors cautious ahead of an expected Federal Reserve rate hike later in the day and a spike in U.S. crude supplies.
Brent crude futures was down 85 cents to $82.79 a barrel by 1026 GMT, while U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude was at $78.82, down 81 cents. Both hit three-month highs on Tuesday.
Oil prices have been rallying for four weeks, with investors buoyed by signs of tighter supplies, largely linked to output cuts by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and allies, as well as pledges by Chinese authorities to shore up the world’s second-biggest economy.
However, there are concerns around whether China, also the world’s second biggest oil consumer, will actually be able to step up policy support.
“We still need to wait for actual policies – the risk is that these policies fall short of expectations,” said ING head commodities strategist Warren Patterson.
“The market will continue to be in a tug-of-war between tightening global supply and fears of slowing demand due to the global economic slowdown,” added Hiroyuki Kikukawa, president of NS Trading, a unit of Nissan Securities.
Investors had also squared their positions ahead of the Fed rate decision, Kikukawa continued.
The U.S. central bank is widely expected to deliver a 25 basis-point rate hike later on Wednesday.
“Today’s rate hike, if it occurs, is widely anticipated to be the last one before a long pause, yet Fed officials will be very wary of raising false hopes of calling a day on the unprecedented monetary tightening program,” said PVM analyst Tamas Varga.
Meanwhile, U.S. crude stocks rose by about 1.32 million barrels in the week ended July 21, according to market sources citing American Petroleum Institute figures on Tuesday. Analysts polled by Reuters had expected a 2.3 million barrel drawdown.
The surprise build in crude and distillate stocks – if confirmed by U.S. government data later today, added Varga, “could temporarily take the wind out of the bull’s sail.”


The Federal Reserve is poised to raise interest rates after pausing in June. What comes next is crucial, but don’t expect clear commitments.
The Federal Reserve is widely expected to raise interest rates at its meeting on Wednesday, and economists will be watching for hints at what officials expect next — and how they think the central bank’s fight against rapid inflation is going.
Fed officials will release their decision at 2 p.m., after which Jerome H. Powell, the Fed chair, will hold a news conference.
Policymakers are expected to raise rates to a range of 5.25 to 5.5 percent this week, their 11th move since they began to lift borrowing costs in March 2022. Officials ratcheted rates higher rapidly last year but have been slowing their campaign for months, even skipping an adjustment in June after 10 consecutive moves.
The central question now is: When will they stop?
Central bankers are unlikely to make a clear commitment this week. They have projected one additional rate move this year, to a 5.5 to 5.75 percent range, but officials will not yet need to commit to when — or even whether — that move is happening. Fed officials will have plenty of time, and plenty of data to parse, before they release their next rate decision and a fresh set of quarterly economic projections on Sept. 20. Still, investors and Fed watchers in general will be monitoring a few key developments on Wednesday.


Markets expected the U.S. Federal Reserve to again raise interest rates by a quarter percentage point
Stocks around the world fell on Wednesday as caution reigned ahead of an expected U.S. Federal Reserve interest rate rise later in the day that may see rates go up to their highest since the global financial crisis.
European stocks fell as much as 0.3% in early trading, with indexes in Germany and France slipped 0.2% and 1.1% respectively.
The Fed’s July decision will be announced later on Wednesday following a two-day meeting. The benchmark rate is expected to be lifted to a range between 5.25% and 5.5% - roughly the highest level since the approach to the 2007-2009 financial crisis and recession.
Still, money market traders are split on the odds of another increase later in the year.
“The 25 basis point rise is a done deal. The expectation is that they will signal a pause of the next meeting,” said Luca Paolini, chief strategist at Pictet Asset Management.
“The risk is that the Fed, looking at market bullishness, may not want to sound too dovish - they may want to keep the door open for more rate hikes.”
The MSCI world equity index, which tracks shares in 47 countries, was flat.
On Wall Street, S&P 500 e-minis futures were flat.
In Britain, shares of lender NatWest fell as much as 3.6% after CEO Alison Rose quit on Wednesday after discussing former Brexit party leader Nigel Farage’s relationship with NatWest with a BBC journalist. Fellow UK lender Lloyds slipped as much as 4.8% as its half-year profit missed expectations.
The yield on benchmark 10-year Treasury notes rose to 3.8905%, compared with its U.S. close of 3.912% on Tuesday.
The two-year yield, which rises with traders’ expectations of higher Fed fund rates, was last at 4.8703% compared with a U.S. close of 4.893%.
NO CHINA ‘SILVER BULLET’?
MSCI’s broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan was down 0.1%.
In Hong Kong, the Hang Seng index was down 0.3% and China’s blue chip CSI300 index was off 0.2%. Positive sentiment had returned to China’s market on Tuesday, when the CSI 300 Index snapped a six-day losing streak.
The gains were driven by pledges by China’s leadership this week to support the economy through a “tortuous” post-pandemic recovery, but they offered very little detail on specific measures, leading to mixed feelings among investors and economists.
“We’re not expecting a silver bullet in terms of any fiscal or monetary stimulus,” said David Chao, Invesco’s Asia Pacific strategist.
In the currency market, the dollar index, which tracks it against a basket of currencies of other major trading partners, was down 0.1% at 101.19, after pushing as high as 101.65 overnight for the first time since July 11.
The dollar also pulled back from close to a two-week high versus the euro, with the single currency gaining 0.1% to $1.10655. It earlier hit a daily low of $1.1036, a level last seen on July 12.
The euro has gained about 1.3% in a month, with markets fully pricing in a 25-basis-point rate increase by the ECB at its meeting this week, though the path for rates beyond July remains up in the air.
Oil prices pulled back from three-month highs as industry data showed a build in U.S. crude inventories. Brent crude futures slipped 0.3% to $83.32 a barrel.
Tom Wilson and Scott Murdoch/Reuters


Even after inflation has steadily eased this year, the Federal Reserve’s policymakers still think prices are rising too fast and are almost certain to lift their key interest rate by a quarter-point on Wednesday.
WASHINGTON (AP) — Even after inflation has steadily eased this year, the Federal Reserve’s policymakers still think prices are rising too fast and are almost certain to lift their key interest rate by a quarter-point on Wednesday.
A rate increase, the 11th in 17 months, would raise the Fed’s short-term rate to roughly 5.3%, the highest level since 2001. As with its previous rate hikes, Wednesday’s increase would likely further elevate the costs of mortgages, auto loans, credit cards and business borrowing.
Another hike is widely expected despite a run of encouraging news that has sent stock prices steadily higher, boosted consumer confidence and brightened hopes that the Fed can pull off a difficult “soft landing,” in which inflation would continue to slow toward the Fed’s 2% target without sending the economy tumbling into a recession.
Inflation amounted to just 3% in June compared with a year earlier, down drastically from a peak of 9.1% in June of last year. Consumers are still spending more — crowding airplanes, traveling overseas and flocking to concerts and movie theaters. Businesses keep hiring, and the unemployment rate has stayed near half-century lows.
Yet the Fed’s expected rate hike Wednesday, after it chose to skip a rate increase last month, points to the dangers that remain. Underlying inflation is still well above the Fed’s target. A price gauge that excludes volatile food and energy costs, known as “core” inflation, rose 4.8% in June compared with 12 months earlier. As long as such measures stay elevated, Fed officials will feel compelled to keep rates high — and possibly raise them further.
In June, the policymakers signaled that they expected to impose two more increases, including Wednesday’s expected hike. Some economists have said they worry that too many hikes could trigger a painful recession.
The big question that Chair Jerome Powell will likely face at a news conference Wednesday is whether and when the Fed may decide to stop lifting rates. Few expect Powell to tip his hand. Instead, he will probably stress that the Fed’s future rate decisions will hinge on what signs the economy sends between now and its next meeting Sept. 19-20.
By then, the policymakers will have much more information. In particular, the government will have released two more monthly inflation reports, two more reports on hiring and unemployment and additional data on consumer spending and wages.
And in late August, Powell will speak at the annual gathering of central bankers in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, which is typically a high-profile opportunity to signal shifts in Fed policy or strategy.
“He’s going to save a lot of what he’s going to say for Jackson Hole,” said Ellen Meade, a Duke University economics professor and former top Fed economist.
Though Powell has stressed that interest rate decisions will be made on a meeting-by-meeting basis, some analysts think the Fed will end up forgoing a hike at its September meeting, similar to its decision to skip an increase in June. The officials would then have the option of imposing a quarter-point hike at their following meeting in November.
Yet by then, most economists think inflation — and the economy — will have cooled enough that another hike won’t be needed. If so, Wednesday’s rate increase would end up being the final one this year.
The Fed started tightening credit before many of its counterparts in other developed countries. But most others are now following a similar path. The European Central Bank is expected to announce its own quarter-point rate hike on Thursday. Though inflation has declined in the 20 countries that use the euro, it remains higher there than in the United States.
The Bank of Japan is expected to keep its policies unchanged when it meets next week even though prices are creeping higher in that country after roughly two decades of declining prices. The Bank of England has been among the most aggressive in Europe, having raised its key rate last month by a surprise half-point to a 15-year high of 5%. In the U.K., inflation, which has stayed persistently high, reached 8.7% in May from a year earlier.
On Friday, the U.S. government is expected to release fresh data on consumer spending in June and an update on the Fed’s preferred inflation gauge. The inflation measure is expected to slow to just 3% compared with a year earlier. That would be the same figure most recently reported for the government’s better-known consumer price index. And it would be down sharply from a 3.8% year-over-year increase in May.


