U.S. government bond yields edged lower, with investors awaiting details from the Federal Reserve’s policy meeting.
U.S. government bond yields edged lower Wednesday, with investors awaiting details from the Federal Reserve’s policy meeting.
The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note recently traded at 1.490%, according to Tradeweb, down from 1.498% at Thursday’s close. The 30-year bond yield traded at 2.182%, down from 2.199%.
Yields, which rise when bond prices fall, slipped before the 2 p.m. release of details from the central bank’s meeting. Analysts and investors generally expect the Fed to hold short-term interest rates near zero and keep buying at least $120 billion a month of Treasury and mortgage bonds, policies implemented over a year ago to help ease trading conditions and fuel the U.S. economic recovery after last year’s market turmoil.
Chairman Jerome Powell has reiterated his belief that the U.S. economy hasn’t recovered sufficiently for the central bank to tighten monetary policy. Investors are watching the meeting for new forecasts, which could show officials expect to raise interest rates sooner than anticipated in March. Some analysts believe that officials may begin discussing when and how to scale back the pace of bond purchases.
Write to Sebastian Pellejero at sebastian.pellejero@wsj.com


European shares closed at a record high on Wednesday, despite caution ahead of a U.S. Federal Reserve meeting that could see it outline plans to start stimulus unwinding.
(Reuters) -European shares closed at a record high on Wednesday, despite caution ahead of a U.S. Federal Reserve meeting that could see it outline plans to start stimulus unwinding.
FILE PHOTO: The German share price index DAX graph is pictured at the stock exchange in Frankfurt, Germany, June 15, 2021. REUTERS/Staff/File photo
The pan-European STOXX 600 was up 0.2% to a record high of 459.86 points, marking its longest gaining streak in three-and-a-half years with a ninth straight positive session.
Travel and leisure, utilities and chemical stocks were the best performers, as investors bet on a jump in consumer demand and industrial production.
But banks fell 0.9% on stock price losses in Banco Sabadell, Santander and Caixabank, after Spain’s competition watchdog opened an investigation into possible anti-competitive practices in the marketing of state-backed coronavirus loans.
The Spanish bourse lagged its regional peers for the day, falling 0.3%.
The benchmark STOXX 600 index has now risen for five straight weeks, with a steady vaccination programme expected to jumpstart regional economic growth. But a recent rise in inflation has sparked concerns of a sooner-than-expected tightening in global monetary policy.
After dovish signals from the European Central Bank last week, the Fed is expected to at least flag the pending start of talks about when and how to exit from policies put in place at the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic.
“The Fed is expected to leave policy unchanged and again play down taper talk. Nonetheless, markets will be looking for hints on whether the Fed is starting to acknowledge that inflation may not be as transitory as thought,” analysts at ING wrote in a note.
In Europe, travel and leisure stocks rose 1.3% after steep losses on Tuesday, while utilities added 1%.
London’s FTSE 100 rose 0.2% even as data showed British inflation unexpectedly jumped above the Bank of England’s 2.0% target in May and looked set to rise further as the country re-opens its economy from lockdowns. [.L]
Shares of German software giant SAP fell 1.2%, weighing on the DAX after a disappointing profit forecast from U.S. software rival Oracle Corp.
Spanish solar power developer Solarpack surged 43% as it disclosed a takeover bid from Swedish fund EQT valued at a maximum of 881.2 million euros ($1.07 billion).
EQT shares fell 1.2%.


European shares closed at a record high on Wednesday, despite caution ahead of a U.S. Federal Reserve meeting that could see it outline plans to start stimulus unwinding.
(Reuters) -European shares closed at a record high on Wednesday, despite caution ahead of a U.S. Federal Reserve meeting that could see it outline plans to start stimulus unwinding.
FILE PHOTO: The German share price index DAX graph is pictured at the stock exchange in Frankfurt, Germany, June 15, 2021. REUTERS/Staff/File photo
The pan-European STOXX 600 was up 0.2% to a record high of 459.86 points, marking its longest gaining streak in three-and-a-half years with a ninth straight positive session.
Travel and leisure, utilities and chemical stocks were the best performers, as investors bet on a jump in consumer demand and industrial production.
But banks fell 0.9% on stock price losses in Banco Sabadell, Santander and Caixabank, after Spain’s competition watchdog opened an investigation into possible anti-competitive practices in the marketing of state-backed coronavirus loans.
The Spanish bourse lagged its regional peers for the day, falling 0.3%.
The benchmark STOXX 600 index has now risen for five straight weeks, with a steady vaccination programme expected to jumpstart regional economic growth. But a recent rise in inflation has sparked concerns of a sooner-than-expected tightening in global monetary policy.
After dovish signals from the European Central Bank last week, the Fed is expected to at least flag the pending start of talks about when and how to exit from policies put in place at the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic.
“The Fed is expected to leave policy unchanged and again play down taper talk. Nonetheless, markets will be looking for hints on whether the Fed is starting to acknowledge that inflation may not be as transitory as thought,” analysts at ING wrote in a note.
In Europe, travel and leisure stocks rose 1.3% after steep losses on Tuesday, while utilities added 1%.
London’s FTSE 100 rose 0.2% even as data showed British inflation unexpectedly jumped above the Bank of England’s 2.0% target in May and looked set to rise further as the country re-opens its economy from lockdowns. [.L]
Shares of German software giant SAP fell 1.2%, weighing on the DAX after a disappointing profit forecast from U.S. software rival Oracle Corp.
Spanish solar power developer Solarpack surged 43% as it disclosed a takeover bid from Swedish fund EQT valued at a maximum of 881.2 million euros ($1.07 billion).
EQT shares fell 1.2%.


The S&P 500 and the Nasdaq drifted just below record highs on Wednesday, with investors on edge before potential hints from the Federal Reserve on when it...
news, latest-news
The S&P 500 and the Nasdaq drifted just below record highs on Wednesday, with investors on edge before potential hints from the Federal Reserve on when it would taper its massive monetary stimulus. The Fed has previously tried to assuage concerns that rising inflation would prompt it to tighten its ultra-loose monetary policy, but data on Tuesday showing a jump in producer prices has again raised expectations the central bank could begin debating closing the taps at its meeting this week. Inflation concerns have dominated markets in recent weeks even as strong corporate earnings and the gradual reopening of the US economy have helped the S&P 500 and the Nasdaq reach all-time highs. "All eyes are really on consideration of tapering," said Art Hogan, chief market strategist at National Securities in New York. "My guess is it's likely not today's business and more in line with August's Kansas City, Jackson Hole summit where they might introduce the concept of timing around tapering but you never know." The central bank's latest policy statement is expected to be released with fresh economic projections. Interest rate-sensitive bank stocks shed about 1.9 per cent, tracking a dip in the benchmark 10-year Treasury yield . On the other hand, technology, utilities and healthcare were in a bright spot. Just before 10am, the Dow Jones Industrial Average was down 44.55 points, or 0.13 per cent, at 34,254.78 and the S&P 500 was down 0.74 points, or 0.02 per cent, at 4,245.85. The Nasdaq Composite was up 41.27 points, or 0.29 per cent, at 14,114.12. Oracle Corp dropped 6.0 per cent trading as the business software maker forecast current-quarter profit below Wall Street estimates. New York-listed shares of Chinese private tutoring companies New Oriental Education & Technology Group, TAL Education Group and Gaotu Techedu Inc fell between 7.3 per cent and 9.0 per cent after a Reuters report that China was poised to unveil a much tougher-than-anticipated crackdown on the industry. Declining issues outnumbered advancers for a 1.45-to-1 ratio on the NYSE and a 1.25-to-1 ratio on the Nasdaq. The S&P index recorded 17 new 52-week highs and no new low, while the Nasdaq recorded 37 new highs and five new lows. Australian Associated Press
/images/transform/v1/crop/frm/silverstone-feed-data/6f5fe225-78de-4fd9-b740-5da421f93653.jpg/r0_74_800_526_w1200_h678_fmax.jpg


Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Governor Benjamin Diokno said Thursday the possibility of an early interest rate hike by the US Federal Reserve will not have any significant impact on the Philippines because of the countrys solid and strong macroeconomic fundamentals.
Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Governor Benjamin Diokno said Thursday the possibility of an early interest rate hike by the US Federal Reserve will not have any significant impact on the Philippines because of the country’s solid and strong macroeconomic fundamentals. “Any rate hike by the Fed will not be an immediate threat to the Philippines. Our GIR [gross international reserves] is healthy and interest rates now are at rock bottom,” Diokno said in an online news briefing. “There will be a mid-term election in the US next year. I doubt the Fed chairman will ‘rock the boat’ amid the [ongoing] uncertainties during the COVID-19 pandemic,” Diokno said. Diokno assured that local monetary authorities would be ready if the Fed decides to increase interest rates sooner. “We could do a lot of measures [on this],” he said. Reports from the US indicated the Federal Reserve signaled an increase in interest rates earlier than previously expected amid the accelerating economic growth and inflation. After a two-day meeting, Fed officials left the main interest rate near zero and said the agency would continue to make massive purchases of Treasury and mortgage bonds to support financial conditions and the recovery. More Fed officials now see a rate hike happening next year or in 2023. Most Fed officials in March expected no rate change through 2023. The Monetary Board of the BSP on May 12 kept the record-low benchmark interest rate at 2 percent, on expectation that inflation rate would remain manageable in the coming months. Diokno said Thursday the accommodative monetary policy and liquidity-enhancing measures of the BSP continued to support the domestic economy amid the health crisis by fostering favorable credit conditions and the orderly functioning of the government securities market.“With a manageable inflation outlook, the BSP continues to prioritize the use of monetary policy space to provide support to economic activity amid the pandemic as key sectors transition to the post-pandemic phase,” he said. The BSP’s liquidity-easing measures released up to P2.2 trillion or equivalent to 12.1 percent of gross domestic product into the financial system. These measures included the 200-basis point cumulative reduction in policy rate in 2020, the reductions in reserve requirement ratios, purchases of government securities in the secondary market and provisional advances to the national government. Diokno said with ample liquidity in the financial system, domestic interest rates gradually declined over the past several months, even as lending activity remained affected by banks’ risk aversion due to concerns over asset quality, profitability and the broader economic outlook. “The prevailing stance of monetary policy remains anchored on the BSP’s assessment of a manageable outlook for inflation over the next two years,” he said. “This outlook in turn is based on the continued predominant role of transitory supply-side factors in the inflation uptick in recent months. In addition, the extent of unused economic capacity amid the early stages of demand recovery partly mitigates the risk of near-term demand-driven pressures as well as second round-effects from supply-side inflation pressures,” he said. Diokno said with asset prices keeping in line with overall market fundamentals, the BSP remained on the lookout for signs of imbalances amid a low-interest rate environment and in anticipation of further demand recovery. “Looking ahead, the BSP shall remain vigilant to ensure that policy responses will neither lead to excessive inflation nor trigger financial stability risks, especially as economic recovery gets underway,” he said.


The first bond backing the EU's COVID-19 recovery fund rallied strongly a day after issuance on Wednesday, while euro area and U.S. government bond yields dipped as investors awaited the Federal Reserve's policy decision.
(Reuters) -The first bond backing the EU’s COVID-19 recovery fund rallied strongly a day after issuance on Wednesday, while euro area and U.S. government bond yields dipped as investors awaited the Federal Reserve’s policy decision.
FILE PHOTO: European Union flags flutter outside the EU Commission headquarters in Brussels, Belgium May 5, 2021. REUTERS/Yves Herman/File Photo
The European Union raised 20 billion euros ($24 billion) from a 10-year bond on Tuesday in the largest-ever single-tranche institutional debt sale that saw near-record demand of 142 billion euros, taking a big step towards establishing itself as a major debt issuer..
The bond rallied sharply in the secondary market in further evidence of strong demand, with its yield - 0.086% at pricing - down 5 basis points to around 0.04% on Wednesday.
The rally was similar to that following the EU’s first issuance last October backing the SURE unemployment scheme, a smaller support programme.
With demand far above the deal size, much investor appetite was left unsatisfied, bankers involved with the deal said.
“Given the particularly low (investor) allocations compared to normal, you’re going to get more follow-on demand than you would typically see,” one of the bankers said.
It attracted such large demand at issuance even though the EU capped orders it considered from hedge funds, which, inflating their demand to secure better allocations, have been a major driver of large bond sale order books.
Investors were keen to buy the first issuance of what will become a much more liquid funding programme than SURE, the bankers said.
The European Central Bank upholding accelerated bond purchases for the third quarter has also given investors confidence to buy into sizable debt sales.
In the broader market, bond yields dipped as the focus was on the conclusion of the U.S. Federal Reserve meeting.
The benchmark 10-year yield was last half a basis point at 1.4939% while investors waited for signs that the policies put into place last year to combat the economic fallout from the pandemic, including a massive bond-buying programme, may be altered.
Fed officials are expected to at least flag the pending start of talks on tapering its bond purchases, while attention will also be on new interest rate and economic projections to show how much policymakers’ views have changed since March.
Germany’s 10-year yield, the euro area benchmark, was down slightly over one basis point to -0.243%, along with most other 10-year yields.
In recent weeks, bond yields, which have fallen on both sides of the Atlantic - closely correlated - have shrugged off a spike in U.S. inflation.
“U.S. yields will probably be the main driver of direction of European yields over the coming three months and I think the Fed rhetoric on tapering and where their inflation targets are will be of interest,” said Nick Sanders, portfolio manager at AllianceBernstein.
In the primary market, Germany raised 4.085 billion euros from the auction of a new 10-year bond.
($1 = 0.8252 euros)


Although the Fed is expected to keep interest rates pinned at near-zero, the central bank may offer some clues on when it will slow its aggressive asset purchase program.
The Federal Reserve will announce its latest policy decision this afternoon.
Although the Fed is expected to keep interest rates pinned at near-zero, the central bank may offer some clues on when it will slow its aggressive asset purchase program.
Since the depths of the pandemic, the Fed has been snatching up $120 billion a month in U.S Treasuries and agency mortgage-backed securities.
With inflationary pressures rising and the economy on the path to recovery, some Fed officials said they were eager to have discussions on paring back the pace of the so-called quantitative easing program.
But the Fed remains concerned about the recovery in the labor market, as May jobs data showed the economy is still 7.6 million jobs short of pre-pandemic levels.
The policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee will release a statement at 2 p.m. ET, alongside a set of economic projections mapping out forecasts for economic indicators like inflation and unemployment.
Fed Chairman Jerome Powell will then be pressed on the central bank's policy stance at a press conference at 2:30 p.m. ET.
Brian Cheung is a reporter covering the Fed, economics, and banking for Yahoo Finance. You can follow him on Twitter @bcheungz.
Read the latest financial and business news from Yahoo Finance
Follow Yahoo Finance on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, Flipboard, SmartNews, LinkedIn, YouTube, and reddit


Every quarter, members of the FOMC forecast where interest rates will go in the short, medium and long term.
Members of the Federal Reserve now see at least two interest rate hikes in 2023, according to the central bank's so-called dot-plot projections.
Wednesday's forecast showed 13 members believe the Fed will hike rates in 2023 and the majority of them believe the central bank will hike at least twice that year. Only 5 members still see the Fed staying pat through 2023. In fact, 7 of the 18 members see the Fed possibly increasing rates as early as 2022.
Download our mobile app for iOS or Android to get alerts for local breaking news and weather.
Previously expected in March, four of the 18 Federal Open Market Committee members were looking for a rate hike at some point in 2022. At the same time, seven members saw a rate increase in 2023.
Every quarter, members of the FOMC forecast where interest rates will go in the short, medium and long term. These projections are represented visually in charts below called a dot plot.
Here are the Fed's latest targets, released in Wednesday's statement:
This is what the Fed's forecast looked like in March 2021:
The Federal Reserve also slightly dialed up its economic expectations for 2021, according to the central bank's Summary of Economic Projections released Wednesday.
The central bank now expects real gross domestic product to grow 7.0% in 2021, compared with its 6.5% forecast from its March meeting. The Fed also upped its 2023 real GDP forecast to 2.4% from 2.2% expected previously.
Source: Federal Reserve
The Fed also sharply increased its inflation forecasts for the year. The central bank now sees inflation running to 3.4% this year, above its previous estimate of 2.4%. The Fed also slightly hiked its PCE inflation estimates for 2022 and 2023.
Core PCE inflation is expected to come in at 3.0% in 2021, up from March's forecast of 2.2%. Core PCE for 2022 is now expected at 2.1%.
The Fed still estimates the unemployment rate will fall to 4.5% in 2021. The FOMC expects the unemployment rate to drop to 3.8% and 3.5% in 2022 and 2023, respectively.
Become a smarter investor with CNBC Pro.
Get stock picks, analyst calls, exclusive interviews and access to CNBC TV.
Sign up to start a free trial today


Federal Reserve officials are expected to flag that they are mulling raising interest rates sooner than anticipated, as the economy reopens and prices begin to spike.
Wall Street and other market participants are closely watching the Federal Reserve on Wednesday for its latest forecast on inflation, and any sign that the central bank is considering starting talks about pulling back on the easy money policies it implemented as part of its response to the pandemic.
The central bank's latest policy statement is set to be released at 2 p.m. ET, with Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell's press conference at 2:30 p.m.
While the Fed is not expected to make any policy changes or rate hikes at the conclusion of its two-day meeting, markets were on edge Wednesday morning. The Fed's "cheap money" strategy has been widely viewed as the catalyst for Wall Street's series of record highs over the past year.
The Fed's benchmark lending rate currently stands at between 0 percent and 0.25 percent, and is expected to remain at that range until at least the end of 2024, according to the Fed's March economic projections.
In remarks before Congress and in other economic forums, Powell has reiterated his commitment to the Fed's accommodative policy stance, emphasizing that the central bank is open to seeing inflation run slightly above its 2 percent target for a period of time — as long as that inflation remains "transitory."
However, with inflation running hotter than expected, and the economy growing more quickly than anticipated, an increasing number of economists and market participants are questioning that policy.
Michael Feroli, chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase, said in a note that he expects Fed officials to signal a rate increase as early as 2023.
“We are also bringing forward our expectations for liftoff to late 2023,” he said.
The Fed has so far doubled down on its outlook and is determined to "keep the pump primed until employment is all the way back to pre-pandemic levels," said Brad McMillan, chief investment officer for Commonwealth Financial Network.
The current labor market shortage has forced some companies to raise wages, triggering price increases in some cases. While the Fed could raise the interest rate in order to rein in that inflation, that would have a negative impact on the labor market, as companies tighten their hiring to keep costs down. The latest monthly jobs report shows an unemployment rate of 5.8 percent — higher than pre-pandemic levels, which were hovering at a half-century low of around 3.5 percent.
"Employment is worse than the headline numbers suggest," McMillan said. "Job growth continues, but millions of people are still out of work, despite the labor shortage headlines. Since the Fed has a dual mandate — unemployment and inflation — that suggests it should indeed keep its focus on unemployment, rather than inflation. And that means continuing to provide monetary stimulus to help the real economy."
Powell, whose four-year tenure as chair ends in February, has repeatedly clarified that he would give plenty of notice before the central bank starts to withdraw its crisis-era support — ostensibly to prevent any “taper tantrum,” when markets were thrown into turmoil in 2013 after the Fed said it intended to scale back its bond purchasing.
“I think this is going to be Powell's toughest conference in his career as chairman,” Dan North, senior economist at Euler Hermes North America, told NBC News. Announcing a timetable for dialing back bond buying would likely spook markets — but not addressing inflation at all could also jangle nerves on Wall Street. “He's in a pretty difficult position either way,” North said.
The Fed's annual symposium in August in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, is widely expected to be the moment when Fed officials begin to discuss in earnest the timeline for winding down its $120 billion monthly bond buying.


The S&P 500 and the Nasdaq drifted just below record highs on Wednesday, with investors on edge before potential hints from the Federal Reserve on when it would taper its massive monetary stimulus.
(Reuters) - The S&P 500 and the Nasdaq drifted just below record highs on Wednesday, with investors on edge before potential hints from the Federal Reserve on when it would taper its massive monetary stimulus.
FILE PHOTO: A Wall Street sign is pictured outside the New York Stock Exchange in the Manhattan borough of New York City, New York, U.S., April 16, 2021. REUTERS/Carlo Allegri/File Photo
The Fed has previously tried to assuage concerns that rising inflation would prompt it to tighten its ultra-loose monetary policy, but data on Tuesday showing a jump in producer prices has again raised expectations the central bank could begin debating closing the taps at its meeting this week.
Inflation concerns have dominated markets in recent weeks even as strong corporate earnings and the gradual reopening of the U.S. economy have helped the S&P 500 and the Nasdaq reach all-time highs.
“All eyes are really on consideration of tapering,” said Art Hogan, chief market strategist at National Securities in New York.
“My guess is it’s likely not today’s business and more in line with August’s Kansas City, Jackson Hole summit where they might introduce the concept of timing around tapering but you never know.”
The central bank’s latest policy statement is expected to be released with fresh economic projections at 2 p.m. ET (1800 GMT).
Interest rate-sensitive bank stocks shed about 1.9%, tracking a dip in the benchmark 10-year Treasury yield. [/US]
On the other hand, technology , utilities and healthcare were in a bright spot.
At 9:52 a.m. ET, the Dow Jones Industrial Average was down 44.55 points, or 0.13%, at 34,254.78 and the S&P 500 was down 0.74 points, or 0.02%, at 4,245.85. The Nasdaq Composite was up 41.27 points, or 0.29%, at 14,114.12.
Oracle Corp dropped 6.0% trading as the business software maker forecast current-quarter profit below Wall Street estimates.
New York-listed shares of Chinese private tutoring companies New Oriental Education & Technology Group, TAL Education Group and Gaotu Techedu Inc fell between 7.3% and 9.0% after a Reuters report that China was poised to unveil a much tougher-than-anticipated crackdown on the industry.
Declining issues outnumbered advancers for a 1.45-to-1 ratio on the NYSE and a 1.25-to-1 ratio on the Nasdaq.
The S&P index recorded 17 new 52-week highs and no new low, while the Nasdaq recorded 37 new highs and five new lows.


Canada's main stock index rose slightly on Wednesday, helped by gains in technology stocks, while investors awaited comments from the U.S. Federal Reserve on when it would ease its monetary stimulus.
(Updates prices, sectors)
June 16 (Reuters) - Canada’s main stock index rose slightly on Wednesday, helped by gains in technology stocks, while investors awaited comments from the U.S. Federal Reserve on when it would ease its monetary stimulus.
* Fed officials on Wednesday are expected to at least flag the pending start of talks about when and how to exit from the crisis-era policies the U.S. central bank put in place at the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic last year.
* At 9:41 a.m. ET (13:41 GMT), the Toronto Stock Exchange’s S&P/TSX composite index was up 23.94 points, or 0.12%, at 20,255.26, with IT stocks, up 0.5%, leading gains.
* Locally, inflation in May accelerated at its fastest pace in a decade for a second month in a row, driven by surging shelter and vehicle prices, as the impact of the statistical comparison to tanking prices last year eased, data showed.
* The energy sector dropped 1% as U.S. crude prices were down 0.1% a barrel, while Brent crude added 0.2%.
* The financials sector gained 0.2%. The industrials sector rose 0.2%.
* On the TSX, 131 issues were higher, while 85 issues declined for a 1.54-to-1 ratio favouring gainers, with 13.76 million shares traded.
* The largest percentage gainer on the TSX was Canfor Corp , which jumped 2.5% after the forest products company said it would buy back up to 6.26 million shares.
* Its gains were followed by NFI Group Inc, which rose 2.3% after the bus and motor coach manufacturer received an order for 195 buses from RATP Dev London.
* Cyberscurity firm Blackberry Ltd fell 3.9%, the most on the TSX, and the second-biggest decliner was Kinross Gold Corp, down 2.8% after the miner temporarily suspended mill operations at its Tasiast mine due to a fire on June 15.
* The most heavily traded shares by volume were Kinross, Tamarack Valley Energy Ltd and Canadian Natural Resources Limited.
* The TSX posted 13 new 52-week highs and no new lows.
* Across all Canadian issues, there were 74 new 52-week highs and two new lows, with total volume of 29.06 million shares. (Reporting by Amal S in Bengaluru; Editing by Devika Syamnath)


World stock markets hovered near record highs on Wednesday as investors braced for any signs the Federal Reserve is preparing a more hawkish stance in response to inflation data, and oil prices hit their highest since April 2019 on recovering demand.
(Reuters) -World stock markets hovered near record highs on Wednesday as investors braced for any signs the Federal Reserve is preparing a more hawkish stance in response to inflation data, and oil prices hit their highest since April 2019 on recovering demand.
FILE PHOTO: Pedestrians leave and enter the London Stock Exchange in London, Britain August 15, 2017. REUTERS/Neil Hall
Stocks have surged to record highs as bullish investors monitor the economic recovery from the pandemic alongside unprecedented government and central bank stimulus. Volatility across asset classes has been pushed to levels last seen before COVID-19 roiled markets in March 2020.
But recent data shows inflation rising in the United States and elsewhere, keeping investors sidelined with a new Fed statement imminent.
Data on Wednesday showed UK inflation unexpectedly jumped above the Bank of England’s 2.0% target in May and hit 2.1%, following U.S. data showing prices rose more than expected.
That heightens the attention on Wednesday’s readout from the Fed and subsequent press conference from Chair Jerome Powell. The Fed is not expected to discuss an exit from its bond purchases until later this summer, but officials could at least flag the pending start of talks about when and how to exit.
With markets having priced in the start of those talks about tapering but unsure whether rising inflation will encourage more aggressive action from the Fed and other central banks, some caution has crept in.
“Things have shifted since the last FOMC meeting. Back in April, the Fed noted that the pace of economic recovery and employment had strengthened,” wrote Win Thin, global head of currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman. “Since the April meeting, we have gotten two months of disappointing jobs data and two months of higher than expected inflation readings.”
Key will be Fed members’ projections, or dot plots, for interest rates and whether more now tip a hike in 2023. Previously only seven out of 18 had seen such a move.
On Wednesday, the MSCI world equity index, which tracks shares in 49 countries, was flat on the day and close to Tuesday’s record high.
The U.S. stock market posted a tepid open, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average falling 0.05%, while the S&P 500 and the Nasdaq Composite saw modest gains.
The pan-European STOXX 600 index rose 0.24%.
INFLATION PROJECTIONS
There could also be some upward movement in inflation projections for this year and next, as the last two readings on consumer prices surprised to the high side.
BofA’s latest survey of fund managers suggests most are sanguine on the outlook. Some 72% said inflation was transitory. Only 23% saw it as permanent.
Bond investors remain sanguine about the prospect of a shift in policy thinking.
Benchmark 10-year U.S. Treasury yields held at 1.485%, a quarter of a percentage point below 2021 highs.
The only signs of investor nervousness were evident in currency markets where the dollar held near a one-month high. The dollar index, which tracks the greenback versus a basket of six currencies, rose 0.042 points or 0.05%.
In commodity markets, spot gold prices fell 0.12% percent to $1,856.38 an ounce, not far from a one-month trough of $1,843.
Oil prices continued their bullish run to hit their highest in more than two years, driven by signs of stronger demand and still tight supplies. [O/R]
Brent crude climbed 14 cents, or 0.19%, to $74.13 a barrel, after earlier hitting $74.73, the highest seen since April 2019. U.S. crude was last down 5 cents at $72.07 per barrel.
Cryptocurrency prices were calm, with bitcoin dipping below $40,000.


The S&P 500 and the Nasdaq opened just below record highs on Wednesday, with investors on edge before potential hints from the Federal Reserve on when it would taper its massive monetary stimulus.
FILE PHOTO: A Wall Street sign is pictured outside the New York Stock Exchange in the Manhattan borough of New York City, New York, U.S., April 16, 2021. REUTERS/Carlo Allegri/File Photo
(Reuters) - The S&P 500 and the Nasdaq opened just below record highs on Wednesday, with investors on edge before potential hints from the Federal Reserve on when it would taper its massive monetary stimulus.
The S&P 500 opened higher by 2.28 points, or 0.05%, at 4,248.87, while the Nasdaq Composite gained 12.69 points, or 0.09%, to 14,085.55 at the opening bell.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 9.15 points, or 0.03%, at the open to 34,308.48.


The dollar was little changed on Wednesday as traders awaited the conclusion of a U.S. Federal Reserve meeting in which investors will be looking for any sign of response from central bank policymakers to the jump in U.S. inflation. The Fed concludes its policy meeting later in the day and will release new economic projections along with a policy statement at 2 p.m. EDT (1800 GMT).
The dollar was little changed on Wednesday as traders awaited the conclusion of a U.S. Federal Reserve meeting in which investors will be looking for any sign of response from central bank policymakers to the jump in U.S. inflation.
The Fed concludes its policy meeting later in the day and will release new economic projections along with a policy statement at 2 p.m. EDT (1800 GMT). The central bank is widely expected to acknowledge the first conversations among its policymakers about when and how quickly to pare back the massive bond-buying program launched in 2020, but most investors think the Fed will refrain from any hints of starting tapering its stimulus in the near future.
Advertisement
The U.S. Dollar Currency Index, which measures the greenback against a basket of six currencies, was 0.014% lower at 90.52. The index hit a one-month high on Tuesday after data pointed to higher inflation. "The USD remains narrowly mixed to slightly softer ahead of the Fed meeting, with the major currencies essentially holding in established ranges," Shaun Osborne, chief currency strategist at Scotiabank, said in a note.
Market participants will be listening to the news conference after the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting for any change in tone from Fed Chair Jerome Powell about whether inflation is likely to be temporary or longer-lasting. "We see no major changes in the policy outlook, with disappointing jobs data precluding the Fed from declaring that it is making substantial progress towards its objectives and paving the way for a tapering in asset purchases," Osborne said.
"Tweaks to the statement and projections will have to recognize higher inflation," Osborne said. While there may be some "talk about talking about tapering" and some further shift in expectations of rate hikes in 2023, Osborne said he does not expect the market to be greatly surprised.
Risk-sensitive currencies were slightly higher, with the New Zealand dollar up 0.38% at $0.7146 and the Australian dollar - which is seen as a proxy for risk appetite - up 0.3% at $0.7708. Sterling strengthened against the dollar on Wednesday after data showed British inflation unexpectedly jumped above the Bank of England's 2% target in May, sparking some concerns that policymakers may start signaling a shift in policy thinking if prices shoot up further.
Meanwhile, bitcoin's recent rally appeared to run out of steam, as the world's largest cryptocurrency fell 2.72% to $39,078.38.
(This story has not been edited by Devdiscourse staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)


Stocks look set for a mixed open as investors await the Federal Reserve’s announcement in the afternoon.
Text size
Stocks look set for a mixed open as investors await the Federal Reserve’s announcement in the afternoon.
Futures on the Dow Jones Industrial Average slipped 21 points, or 0.1%, while S&P 500 futures were little changed and Nasdaq Composite futures advanced 0.1%.
Investors are in wait-and-see mode, as the Fed will reveal the direction of monetary policy. Among the most pressing questions: When will the central bank reduce the current bond purchasing program, which would likely lower bond prices, lift their yields, and be a negative for stock valuations. “Stock futures are flat this morning as a sense of Fed paralysis grips global markets ahead of the FOMC announcement,” writes Tom Essaye, founder of Sevens Report Research.
Essaye added that if the Fed officially states that it will begin its tapering program, stocks could perform poorly. But if the Fed merely admits it is considering tapering, stocks may not fall.
Here are five stocks making moves in Wednesday’s premarket action:
Dish Network (DISH) has gained 2.1% after getting upgraded to Buy from Hold at Pivotal Research.
U.S. Steel (X) has dropped 1.1% after getting assumed with Underweight from Neutral at JPMorgan.
General Motors (GM) has risen 2.1% after it said it would increase spending on electric by 30% by 2025.
Oracle (ORCL) has dropped 5.2% after beating earnings forecasts but offering disappointing guidance.
Meme stocks were trading lower. AMC Entertainment Holdings (ticker: AMC) stock fell 4.1%, while GameStop (GME) stock declined 3.7%.
Write to Jacob Sonenshine at jacob.sonenshine@barrons.com


Federal Reserve officials on Wednesday are expected to at least flag the pending start of talks about when and how to exit from the crisis-era policies the U.S. central bank put in place at the onset of the coronavirus pandemic last year.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Federal Reserve officials on Wednesday are expected to at least flag the pending start of talks about when and how to exit from the crisis-era policies the U.S. central bank put in place at the onset of the coronavirus pandemic last year.
FILE PHOTO: The Federal Reserve building is pictured in Washington, DC, U.S., August 22, 2018. REUTERS/Chris Wattie/File Photo
With U.S. inflation rising faster than expected and the economy forecast to grow at its quickest pace in decades this year, some policymakers have begun questioning whether the Fed should continue to keep its benchmark short-term interest rate near zero and leave unchanged a massive bond-buying program put in place to stem the economic fallout from the pandemic. Graphic: Fed vs. private 2021 GDP outlook:
Balanced against the improving economic terrain: The United States is still 7.5 million jobs short of where it was in early 2020, and the reopening of schools, concert venues and a host of other public areas remains a work in progress.
Daily coronavirus infections and deaths have plummeted, but only about half of those over the age of 12 have been fully vaccinated, short of what epidemiologists feel is needed to squelch the virus for good and eliminate the risk of future localized outbreaks.
Any actual change in monetary policy is, as a result, likely months down the road as the Fed balances a variety of risks.
The central bank’s latest policy statement, due to be released with fresh economic projections at 2 p.m. EDT (1800 GMT), is expected to err on the side of continuing the Fed’s support for the economy until more workers are back on the job. Fed Chair Jerome Powell is scheduled to hold a news conference to elaborate on the two-day meeting.
Yet enough has changed in recent months - and may start to change at an even faster clip - that analysts expect the Fed to at least acknowledge the start of policy discussions that will eventually lead to a plan to first reduce the monthly $120 billion in bond purchases to zero and then start raising interest rates.
"This is about getting the ball rolling," in a process that may take months to complete, and in a way that avoids any rapid shift in sentiment among investors or consumers that could damage the recovery in the meantime, wrote Tim Duy, chief U.S. economist for SGH Macro Advisors and a University of Oregon professor focused on Fed policy. Graphic: Substantial further progress for the Fed? :
LIFTOFF
The new interest rate and economic projections will show just how much policymakers’ views have changed since March, when Fed officials at the median still projected the first interest rate increase would be delayed until at least 2024.
U.S. job growth has been weaker than expected in the intervening weeks, but inflation has run hotter - a worst-of-both-worlds outcome that has forced the Fed to bank on recent price hikes proving “transitory,” and hiring to accelerate as the nation’s economic reopening continues.
The Fed has laid out an explicit test for any rate hike - including the need for inflation to not just reach but exceed the central bank’s 2% target “for some time” in order to make up for years of inflation that was too low. The economy may only be at the start of that journey, even with the recent jump in the Fed’s preferred inflation measure to 3.6%. While that was the highest in 13 years, it was only one monthly reading and driven by factors officials feel will fade over time.
Still, the timing for the initial “liftoff” of rates could shift into 2023 if only two or three officials feel the improved outlook, or a too-fast-return of inflation, would warrant faster action - a change investors may read as particularly “hawkish.”
Deutsche Bank’s chief U.S. economist, Matthew Luzzetti, wrote last week that he felt it a “close call” whether the Fed’s updated “dot plot” of interest rate projections would advance an initial rate hike into next year, but that ultimately the policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee would see continued near-zero rates as more consistent with the path of the recovery and the management of the twin inflation and employment goals.
“With the labor market lagging, no strong evidence that the Fed’s transitory inflation story is incorrect, and market pricing moving closer to the Fed’s views on inflation and the policy rate, the Committee should not yet feel compelled to send a hawkish signal through their rates guidance,” Luzzetti said.


World stock markets treaded water near record highs on Wednesday as investors braced for any hawkish signals from the conclusion of the Federal Reserve's two-day policy meeting, and oil prices hit their highest since April 2019 on recovering demand.
World stock markets treaded water near record highs on Wednesday as investors braced for any hawkish signals from the conclusion of the Federal Reserve's two-day policy meeting, and oil prices hit their highest since April 2019 on recovering demand. Investor bullishness about the economic recovery after COVID-19 and ample stimulus from central banks and governments has propelled stocks to record highs. Volatility across asset classes has been pushed to levels last seen before the pandemic roiled markets in March 2020.
But inflation is also rising in the United States and elsewhere. Data on Wednesday showed UK inflation unexpectedly jumped above the Bank of England's 2.0% target in May and hit 2.1%, and inflation looks set to rise further as Britain reopens its economy. That makes the tone and content of Wednesday's readout from the Fed's meeting more important for global markets. Officials are expected to at least flag the pending start of talks about when and how to exit the policies introduced during the pandemic last year.
Advertisement
With markets having priced in the start of those talks about tapering but unsure whether rising inflation will encourage more aggressive action from the Fed and other central banks, some caution has crept in. On Wednesday, the MSCI world equity index, which tracks shares in 49 countries, was flat on the day and close to Tuesday's record high.
The Euro STOXX was little changed. Britain's FTSE 100 gave up early gains and Germany's DAX dipped 0.1%. Wall Street looked set to open flat on the day, while Asian shares mostly closed slightly weaker.
"The FOMC (Federal Open Market Committee) meeting is highly unlikely to bring any changes to either rates or the pace of asset purchases," UniCredit analysts said. "However, we expect the Fed to signal that, if the economy continues to recover strongly, it will likely be appropriate to begin to discuss a plan for tapering the pace of asset purchases at some point in upcoming meetings."
Key will be Fed members' projections, or dot plots, for interest rates and whether more now tip a hike in 2023. Previously only seven out of 18 had seen such a move. INFLATION PROJECTIONS
There could also be some upward movement in inflation projections for this year and next, as the last two readings on consumer prices surprised to the high side. BofA's latest survey of fund managers suggests most are sanguine on the outlook. Some 72% said inflation was transitory. Only 23% saw it as permanent.
"The Fed has a difficult task at this meeting if it wants to avoid both upsetting the markets with more hawkish guidance and a new speculative rush if it totally fails to adjust its policy guidance and economic forecasts," said John Hardy, Head of FX Strategy at Saxo Bank. Bond investors remain sanguine about the prospect of a shift in policy thinking.
Benchmark 10-year U.S. Treasury yields held at 1.488%, a quarter of a percentage point below 2021 highs, while the European Union raised 20 billion euros in 10-year debt yielding less than 0.1% amid near-record demand. The only signs of investor nervousness were evident in currency markets where the dollar held near a one-month high .
Sterling gained 0.2% versus the dollar but at just above $1.41 remained within recent ranges. The euro traded at $1.2117. In commodity markets, gold was pinned at $1,859 an ounce and not far from a one-month trough of $1,843.
Copper lost some ground as China confirmed it would release some reserves of the base metal, as well as aluminium and zinc to help contain recent price rises in commodities. Oil prices continued their bullish run to hit their highest in more than two years amid signs of stronger demand and still tight supplies.
Brent climbed 39 cents to $74.38 a barrel and was aiming for the 2019 peak of $75.63, while U.S. crude added 28 cents to $72.4. Cryptocurrency prices were calm, with bitcoin struggling to hold above $40,000.
(Editing by Timothy Heritage and Chizu Nomiyama)
(This story has not been edited by Devdiscourse staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)


U.S. stock futures were flat ahead of Wednesday afternoon's conclusion of the Federal Reserve's two-day June meeting.
1. Stocks look steady ahead of the post-Fed meeting updates
Traders on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange. Source: NYSE
U.S. stock futures were flat ahead of Wednesday afternoon's conclusion of the Federal Reserve's two-day meeting. No policy changes are expected, but Wall Street wants to know whether the Fed still thinks rising inflation is transitory and whether its latest view will lead to a sooner-than-expected rate hike and a tapering of its massive bond buying program. On Day 1 of the Fed meeting and after another red-hot inflation report, the S&P 500 and Nasdaq broke three-day winning streaks, dipping from record closes on Monday. The Dow fell Tuesday for its second straight day. The 30-stock average was roughly 1.4% away from its record high close in early May.
2. Bond yields in Fed holding pattern after latest hot inflation data
Employees work at a factory producing trucks in Zhangjiakou in China's northern Hebei province on June 9, 2021. STR | AFP | Getty Images
3. Final major piece of economic data for Fed gathering to consider
New townhomes are seen under construction while building material supplies are in high demand in Tampa, Florida, May 5, 2021. Octavio Jones | Reuters
Housing starts and building permits for May, the final piece of major economic data before the Fed's decision, is set to be released at 8:30 a.m. ET. Economists expect a 3.9% increase in new construction to an annual rate of 1.63 million units. Housing starts tumbled 9.5% in April. Building permits are seen falling 1.7% to 1.73 million in May following a 0.3% gain in April. In addition to its policy statement, the Fed also issues its quarterly summary of economic projections. According to CNBC's latest Fed survey, economists, fund managers and Wall Street strategists don't see tapering before January or the first rate hike from near-zero levels until November 2022.
4. High-stakes Biden-Putin summit begins in Geneva
Russia's President Vladimir Putin (L) and US President Joe Biden shake hands as they meet for talks at the Villa La Grange. Mikhail Metzel | TASS | Getty Images
In one of the most highly anticipated geopolitical events of the year, the meeting of U.S. President Joe Biden and Russian President Vladimir Putin got underway Wednesday in Geneva. The summit comes as relations between the two nations have deteriorated, with the U.S. accusing Russia of election meddling as well as involvement in human rights abuses and recent cyberattacks. Russia has always denied the multiple accusations leveled against it, saying it's a victim of anti-Russian sentiment in the West. Biden meets with Putin after a flurry of American diplomacy with Europe allies at the G-7 and NATO summits.
5. Study: Regeneron antibody cocktail can save hospitalized Covid patients
View of Corporate and Research and Development Headquarters of Regeneron Pharmaceuticals on Old Saw Mill River Road in Tarrytown, New York. Lev Radin | LightRocket | Getty Images
An antibody combination made by U.S biotech Regeneron reduces the risk of death when given to hospitalized patients with severe Covid whose own immune systems failed to mount a response, according to a University of Oxford study. Dr. Scott Gottlieb told CNBC on Wednesday, "This was the subset that the [former] president also probably fell into," referring to when Donald Trump received the Regeneron treatment during his bout with Covid last year. Previous studies of the Regeneron cocktail in nonhospitalized Covid patients have shown that the treatment reduces viral load, shortens the time to the resolution of symptoms, and significantly reduces the risk of hospitalization or death.
— Follow all the market action like a pro on CNBC Pro. Get the latest on the pandemic with CNBC's coronavirus coverage.


The first bond backing the EU's COVID-19 recovery fund rallied strongly a day after issuance on Wednesday, while euro area government bond yields dipped as investors awaited the U.S. Federal Reserve's policy decision.
(Reuters) -The first bond backing the EU’s COVID-19 recovery fund rallied strongly a day after issuance on Wednesday, while euro area government bond yields dipped as investors awaited the U.S. Federal Reserve’s policy decision.
FILE PHOTO: European Union flags flutter outside the EU Commission headquarters in Brussels, Belgium May 5, 2021. REUTERS/Yves Herman/File Photo
The European Union raised 20 billion euros ($24 billion) from a 10-year bond on Tuesday in the largest-ever single-tranche institutional debt sale that saw near-record demand of 142 billion euros, taking a big step towards establishing itself as a major debt issuer..
The bond rallied sharply in the secondary market in further evidence of strong demand, with its yield - 0.086% at pricing - down 5 basis points to around 0.04% on Wednesday.
The rally was similar to that following the EU’s first issuance last October backing the SURE unemployment scheme, a smaller support programme.
With demand far above the deal size, much investor appetite was left unsatisfied, bankers involved with the deal said.
“Given the particularly low (investor) allocations compared to normal, you’re going to get more follow-on demand than you would typically see,” one of the bankers said.
It attracted such large demand at issuance even though the EU capped orders it considered from hedge funds, which, inflating their demand to secure better allocations, have been a major driver of large bond sale order books.
Investors were keen to buy the first issuance of what will become a much more liquid funding programme than SURE, the bankers said.
The European Central Bank upholding accelerated bond purchases for the third quarter has also given investors confidence to buy into sizable debt sales.
In the broader market, bond yields dipped as the focus was on the conclusion of the U.S. Federal Reserve meeting.
Germany’s 10-year yield, the euro area benchmark, was down one basis point to -0.24%, along with most other 10-year yields.
Fed officials are expected to at least flag the pending start of talks on tapering its bond purchases, while attention will also be on new interest rate and economic projections to show how much policymakers’ views have changed since March.
In recent weeks, bond yields, which have fallen on both sides of the Atlantic - closely correlated - have shrugged off a spike in U.S. inflation.
“U.S. yields will probably be the main driver of direction of European yields over the coming three months and I think the Fed rhetoric on tapering and where their inflation targets are will be of interest,” said Nick Sanders, portfolio manager at AllianceBernstein.
In the primary market, Germany raised 4.085 billion euros from the auction of a new 10-year bond.
($1 = 0.8252 euros)


S&P and Nasdaq futures hovered just below record highs on Wednesday with investors on edge before potential comments from the Federal Reserve on when it would taper its massive monetary stimulus.
FILE PHOTO: A Wall Street sign is pictured outside the New York Stock Exchange in the Manhattan borough of New York City, New York, U.S., April 16, 2021. REUTERS/Carlo Allegri/File Photo
(Reuters) - S&P and Nasdaq futures hovered just below record highs on Wednesday with investors on edge before potential comments from the Federal Reserve on when it would taper its massive monetary stimulus.
The Fed has previously tried to assuage concerns that rising inflation would prompt it to tighten its ultra loose monetary policy, but data on Tuesday showing a jump in producer prices has again raised expectations the central bank could begin debating closing the taps at its meeting this week.
The central bank’s latest policy statement is expected to be released with fresh economic projections at 2 p.m. ET (1800 GMT).
At 6:56 a.m. ET, Dow e-minis were down 34 points, or 0.1%, S&P 500 e-minis were down 0.75 points, or 0.02%, and Nasdaq 100 e-minis were up 15.25 points, or 0.11%.
In corporate news, Oracle Corp dropped 4.7% in premarket trading as the business software maker forecast current-quarter profit below Wall Street estimates.
Banks including JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America and Goldman Sachs tracked a dip in the benchmark 10-year Treasury yield. [/US]
Energy stocks Exxon Mobil and Chevron were subdued even as oil prices climbed toward $75 a barrel to their highest since April 2019. [O/R]


Stock futures traded mixed Wednesday morning as investors looked ahead to a key monetary policy decision from the Federal Reserve.
Stock futures traded mixed Wednesday morning as investors looked ahead to a key monetary policy decision from the Federal Reserve.
Contracts on the S&P 500 edged slightly lower. A day earlier, the three major U.S. stock indexes closed out the session lower, with both the S&P 500 and Nasdaq pulling back from record highs logged earlier this week. Treasury yields were mostly lower, and the benchmark 10-year yield hovered around 1.49%.
Traders are anxiously awaiting the conclusion of the Federal Reserve's latest monetary policy meeting, which will culminate with a policy statement Wednesday afternoon and a press conference from Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell. Both come at a critical juncture in the U.S. economic recovery, with economic activity accelerating and producing inflationary pressures that some market participants believe may warrant a nearer-term shift to monetary policy than the central bank has currently telegraphed.
On Tuesday, new economic data showed producer prices surged at the fastest year-on-year rate on record, with inflationary pressures reverberating across the supply chain as demand picks up. The data added to a spate of other readings corroborating these rising prices, with both the core consumer price index and core personal consumption expenditures at a near 30-year high in May.
"I do think this impulse of inflation, although transitory, is going to be much higher than the Fed and market participants are expecting right now. I'm expecting some more hotter inflation data, but ultimately those pressures ease as we get into 2022." Jeff Schulze, investment strategist at ClearBridge Investments, told Yahoo Finance. He added he expects the Fed to begin laying out a path toward tapering its asset purchase program as soon as August or September, but that actual tapering will likely not ultimately begin until next year.
For now, the Federal Reserve has continued its quantitative easing with asset purchases taking place at a rate of $120 billion per month and kept interest rates near zero, and has maintained that it believes inflation pressures will prove transitory. Wednesday's meeting will also come with an updated Summary of Economic Projections, or dot plot, from the Fed, which may should changes to their median projections for economic growth and the timing for a rate hike. The Fed's latest dot plot signaled it would keep rates on hold near zero through at least 2023.
Story continues
"The reopening of the economy has continued as COVID cases have dropped, and all the near-real-time indicators of economic activity have improved markedly," Ian Shepherdson, chief economist for Pantheon Macroeconomics, wrote in a note Tuesday. "Unemployment, however, remains elevated, despite some 3.5 million people still absent from the labor force, compared to the pre-COVID level."
"The Fed, in short, is not yet in a position to declare that 'substantial further progress' — the test for beginning to taper its asset purchases — has been made," he added. "The question for markets and Chair Powell [Wednesday], though, is whether sufficient progress-towards-progress has been made to allow the Fed to start talking about tapering."
—
7:24 a.m. ET Wednesday: Stock futures trade mixed
Here's where markets were trading Wednesday morning:
S&P 500 futures ( ES=F ) : 4,244.50, -2 points (-0.05%)
Dow futures ( YM=F ) : 34,236.00, -52 points (-0.15%)
Nasdaq futures ( NQ=F ): 14,042.00, +11.75 points (+0.08%)
Crude ( CL=F ) : +$0.25 (+0.35%) to $72.37 a barrel
Gold ( GC=F ) : +$0.70 (+0.04%) to $1,857.10 per ounce
10-year Treasury (^TNX): -0.8 bps to yield 1.491%
—
6:20 p.m. ET Tuesday: Stock futures drift higher
Here's where markets were trading Tuesday evening:
S&P 500 futures ( ES=F ) : 4,249.25, +2.75 points (+0.06%)
Dow futures ( YM=F ) : 34,306.00, +18 points (+0.05%)
Nasdaq futures (NQ=F): 14,046.75, +16.5 points (+0.12%)
NEW YORK, NEW YORK - MAY 11: People visit the Fearless Girl Statue in front of the New York Stock Exchange in Wall Street on May 11, 2021 in New York City. New York Governor Andrew Cuomo announced pandemic restrictions to be lifted on May 19. (Photo by Noam Galai/Getty Images)
—
Emily McCormick is a reporter for Yahoo Finance. Follow her on Twitter: @emily_mcck
Read more from Emily:


S&P 500 futures wavered between gains and losses as investors awaited cues on when the Federal Reserve may begin tapering bond purchases.
U.S. stock futures wavered Wednesday ahead of the Federal Reserve’s latest projections, which could provide cues on when policy makers may begin to dial back support for the economy.
Futures tied to the S&P 500 edged up less than 0.1%, pointing to a tepid rise at the opening bell. The broad market index ended Tuesday down 0.2%. Nasdaq-100 futures ticked up 0.1% Wednesday, suggesting muted gains in technology stocks.
Stocks are hovering close to all-time highs with many developed economies moving toward ending lockdowns while central banks keep easy-money policies in place. Investors this week are watching for any changes in Fed policy makers’ views on inflation, the labor market, and other economic indicators that may offer hints on when they would begin tapering bond purchases. Data Tuesday showed that retail sales dropped in May while producer prices rose, offering a mixed picture of the recovery.
“We’ve had the initial exuberance and we are catching up a little bit to reality. Markets are less liquid—being summertime—and they are also digesting some of this anticipation,” said Shaniel Ramjee, a multiasset fund manager at Pictet Asset Management. “There have been some data points that have come in lower than expected, such as retail sales. It has reduced the cause for concern that the Fed could taper faster than expected.”
The Fed will release its latest monetary policy decision at 2 p.m. ET. The central bank will also release individual policy makers’ updated quarterly economic projections. The new forecasts could show officials expecting to raise interest rates sooner than they anticipated in March. They are also likely to begin discussing when and how to start scaling back bond purchases.


Indian shares ended lower on Wednesday, hurt by losses in heavyweight Reliance Industries and financial stocks, ahead of U.S. Federal Reserve's policy statement due later in the day.
BENGALURU, June 16 (Reuters) - Indian shares ended lower on Wednesday, hurt by losses in heavyweight Reliance Industries and financial stocks, ahead of U.S. Federal Reserve’s policy statement due later in the day.
The blue-chip NSE Nifty 50 index fell 0.64% to 15,767.55 and the benchmark S&P BSE Sensex was down 0.51% to 52,501.98 at close. Both the indexes ended at a record high on Tuesday.
Reliance Industries Ltd, HDFC Ltd and ICICI Bank Ltd were among the top drags on the Nifty 50, shedding between 0.8% and 1.7%. Shares of Reliance have gained in the last five trading sessions out of eight.
The Nifty Bank Index and the Nifty Private Bank Index, which have fallen between 0.10% and 0.13% so far this week, ended more than 0.68% lower each.
The Nifty Metal Index fell the most among other sub-indexes, ending 2.85% lower, dragged by Tata Steel Ltd and JSW Steel Ltd, which fell 2.7% each.
China announced plans on Wednesday to release industrial metals from its national reserves to curb commodity prices.
Globally, stock markets treaded water near record highs as investors watched for any hawkish signals from the conclusion of the Federal Reserve’s two-day policy meeting.
Many investors expect the Fed to maintain its dovish stance, while some Fed board members have said the central bank should start discussing tapering its bond-buying.
Among other notable stock moves in India, Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone Ltd fell 7.2% in the seventh consecutive session of losses. The company earlier this week rejected a media report that said accounts of three foreign investor funds that own Adani Group stocks had been frozen.
Indian fertilizer stocks including National Fertilizers Ltd and Chambal Fertilisers and Chemicals Ltd closed up 3.9% and 6.9%, respectively, after the Indian government approved additional 147 billion rupees ($2 billion) for fertilizer subsidies. ($1 = 73.3250 Indian rupees) (Reporting by Rama Venkat in Bengaluru; Editing by Shinjini Ganguli)


A jump in consumer prices is sure to come up at a news conference on Wednesday after the Federal Reserve’s meeting.
Here is where inflation stands as the Fed meets. Jerome H. Powell, the Fed chair, is expected to continue predicting that inflation pressures will fade when he holds a news conference Wednesday afternoon. Credit... Stefani Reynolds for The New York Times The Federal Reserve will release its June policy decision and newest economic projections at 2 p.m. on Wednesday, and investors will be scrutinizing its announcements for clues on whether the central bank’s thinking about inflation might be changing. Price gains have been coming in quicker than central bankers had expected when they last released economic projections in March, and that has invited questions about whether and when the Fed will need to begin removing its economic policy supports, which remain set to emergency mode. Any tweaks to the Fed’s policy statement or estimates about the outlook will be closely watched. Economists generally expect Jerome H. Powell, the Fed chair, to stick to the script when it comes to price increases: Predicting that inflation pressures will fade as the United States gets through a funky reopening period and noting that the central bank has the tools to deal with inflation if gains do last. There are reasons to expect the bump to wane. Prices sank during lockdowns last year, making the year-over-year comparison look artificially big, and prices are rising now because demand is bouncing back faster than supply. Officials expect that the bottlenecks restricting the supply of items like cars and airline tickets will clear up as things return to normal. But as climbing costs for consumers dominate headlines and political debates in Washington, Mr. Powell is likely to face questions about how much inflation the Fed is willing to tolerate before the situation is no longer seen as manageable and temporary. Here are the inflation indicators the Fed is working with headed into its meeting: Personal consumption expenditures, the Fed’s preferred gauge: up 3.6 percent in April from the prior year, the fastest pace in 13 years.
Core P.C.E., which strips out volatile food and energy prices: up 3.1 percent in April over the year, the fastest pace since 1992.
Consumer Price Index, an important Labor Department gauge: up 5 percent in May from a year earlier.
University of Michigan consumer inflation expectation for next year: moderated to 4 percent in preliminary June data, but still up from 3 percent at the start of the year.
University of Michigan consumer inflation expectation for five years from now: moderated to 2.8 percent in preliminary June data, little changed from 2.7 percent at the start of 2021.
Five-year, five-year forward inflation expectation rate, a market-based measure: appears to have stabilized around 2.3 percent after climbing sharply earlier this year.
Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s Survey of Consumer Expectations, inflation expectation for next year: 4 percent, up from 3 percent at the start of the year.
New York Fed Survey of Consumer Expectations, inflation expectation for three years from now: 3.6 percent, up from 3 percent at the start of the year. The Fed targets 2 percent inflation on average, and officials had been hoping to coax inflation slightly higher so that price gains average their goal rate after years of weakness. Officials have also aspired to lift inflation expectations, which had been drifting too low. As a result, the recent moves higher might be received as good news. The key question is how long stronger price pressures will last — and at what point they will have overstayed their welcome. Read more
TikTok takes over the top sponsor spot at VidCon, edging out YouTube. VidCon attracts young influencers the way Davos attracts older ones. Credit... Jerod Harris/Getty Images VidCon, the annual online video convention that has become the biggest event in the influencer industry, is returning to the Anaheim Convention Center in California this fall. And it has a new top sponsor: TikTok. The announcement on Tuesday, which was first reported by Variety, solidified the app’s ascendancy after a year of tremendous growth and reflected a changed social media landscape, one where overnight stardom is more likely to happen on TikTok than on YouTube, which had been VidCon’s top sponsor since 2013. TikTok, which was introduced in the United States in 2018, made a memorable appearance at the last VidCon, in 2019. Its splashy party drew such a crowd that hundreds of creators were left standing at the entrance. This year, the company’s presence will only be bigger. TikTok will bring many of the app’s top creators to appear at events, and an executive at the company will deliver the keynote address. Since its founding in 2010, VidCon has been an opportunity for creators to network with executives in entertainment and technology; source brand deals; socialize; and meet fans. Last year’s VidCon drew more than 75,000 attendees. In years past, YouTubers dominated the convention, but the creator economy has changed dramatically in the last year. A spokesperson from YouTube said that the company will maintain a large presence at this year’s event, which is scheduled to take place Oct. 21-24. “We prioritized the health and safety of our creators, fans and employees as we thoughtfully worked through our VidCon plans months ago,” the spokesperson wrote in an email. “We are excited to continue our investment in our creators and VidCon as we have done since 2013 through new and different opportunities as part of the overall program.” Read more
Advertisement Continue reading the main story
In an about-face, Lordstown Motors says it has enough money and will start building trucks. Credit... Megan Jelinger/Agence France-Presse—Getty Images A day after ousting two top executives, the electric truck start-up Lordstown Motors said on Tuesday that it was on track to start production in September even if it does not raise additional funding, contradicting what it told securities regulators just a week ago. In a filing to the Securities and Exchange Commission last week, Lordstown said it needed to raise more money and might not survive. Then, on Monday its founder and chief executive, Steve Burns, and the company’s chief financial officer resigned. But in a news conference hosted by the Detroit-based Automotive Press Association, the company’s new executive team presented a far more optimistic outlook without providing many details. Lordstown’s president, Rich Schmidt, said that the company would start making trucks at its plant in Lordstown, Ohio, in late September and that it had enough money to last until May 2022. He said the company would be able to make about 15,000 trucks over the next 24 months. He also said the company was still actively seeking new funding to increase production. “It’s a new day at Lordstown Motors, and there is no and will be no disruption to our plans to start production,” the company’s new executive chairwoman, Angela Strand, said. She had previously served as the lead independent director on Lordstown’s board. Lordstown’s stock had climbed to nearly $31 a share earlier this year, but fell to about $7 in May, after Mr. Burns acknowledged that the thousands of “pre-orders” the company had been touting were not binding orders. Some large orders the company had announced had also come from “influencers” who did not plan to buy the trucks themselves, the company said on Monday. Mr. Schmidt, who joined Lordstown in 2019 after a stint at Tesla, said on Tuesday that the company had “binding” orders for all the trucks the company is likely to make in 2021 and 2022. But he declined to disclose the total number, name specific customers or say whether they had paid deposits to secure their orders. “Those are firm orders,” Mr. Schmidt said. “They have been reconfirmed last week.” Lordstown shares jumped more than 10 percent on Tuesday. He said production would start in September even though the company’s Endurance truck has not passed all the required crash and engineering tests needed to be cleared for sale in the United States. Trucks that roll off its assembly line would be held until the testing is complete and then modified, if necessary, before being shipped to customers, a highly unusual practice in the auto industry. Mr. Schmidt offered little detail on what prompted Mr. Burns’s departure. About a dozen other senior executives were also let go on Monday. Lordstown gained attention in 2019 when it agreed to buy a plant that General Motors was closing. The shutdown drew scorn from President Donald J. Trump, and G.M. sold the plant to Lordstown for just $20 million. Mr. Trump later hosted Mr. Burns at the White House. Lordstown plans to make a rugged, electric pickup truck for commercial customers like mining and construction businesses. Mr. Burns had hoped the company would become the Tesla of the pickup market. But investors grew concerned about Lordstown’s prospects after a small investment firm, Hindenburg Research, published a report in March that raised questions about interest in the company’s trucks. Read more


* Federal Reserve policy statement due at 1800 GMT (Recasts, adds comment, updates prices)
* U.S. retail sales drop 1.3% in May
* Federal Reserve policy statement due at 1800 GMT (Recasts, adds comment, updates prices)
June 16 (Reuters) - Gold prices steadied in a narrow range on Wednesday as investors awaited for any signs of early tapering from the U.S. Federal Reserve meeting.
Spot gold was steady at $1,859.00 per ounce by 0902 GMT. It fell to its lowest since May 17 at $1,843.99 on Monday.
U.S. gold futures rose 0.3% to $1,860.90.
In a new policy statement and economic projections due on Wednesday, the Fed is expected to acknowledge the first conversations among its policymakers about when and how fast to pare back its massive bond-buying programme launched in 2020.
UBS analyst Giovanni Staunovo said the market was looking for any hawkish signals so they would be more likely to move gold prices than the Fed reiterating that it would stick with the dovish path of recent months.
“There is inflation pressure building up, so the question is how they perceive that,” Staunovo said.
Potentially buoying gold’s appeal for investors holding other currencies, the dollar index edged down slightly.
Data on Tuesday showed U.S. retail sales dropped more than expected in May, while producer prices jumped by 6.6% year-on-year during the month, the largest gain since November 2010.
This comes on the backdrop of recent data showing a spike in U.S. consumer prices, which have raised concerns over rising inflation rates.
However, Fed officials have said rising inflationary pressures are transitory and ultra-easy monetary settings would stay in place for some time.
“The street is heavily positioned with the Fed in the transitory indication corner. The FOMC is unlikely to rock the boat tonight, and if they did, it would be a massive surprise,” Jeffrey Halley, senior market analyst for Asia Pacific at OANDA said, referring to the Fed’s policy committee.
Elsewhere, silver rose 0.3% to $27.73 per ounce, palladium slipped 0.2% to $2,758.33, and platinum fell 0.4% to $1,148.58. (Reporting by Arundhati Sarkar in Bengaluru; Editing by David Clarke)


Equities traded softer in Asia, while European stocks and U.S. futures were flat, with all eyes on the outcome of a two-day Federal Reserve meeting.
Text size
Stocks traded mixed across the globe on Wednesday, with U.S. equity futures largely flat as investors awaited the outcome of the two-day Federal Open Market Committee meeting.
The Nikkei 225 index slipped 0.5%, while China’s CSI 300 index lost 1.7%, with modest losses also sprinkled across the region. Fresh data out of China showed signs of the country’s strong rebound from the Covid-19 pandemic starting to moderate, with industrial production and retail sales rising, but at a slower pace, along with fixed-asset investment.
The European Stoxx 600 and U.S. stock futures were flat, though Dow Jones Industrial Average futures were tilting lower.
The S&P 500 and Nasdaq Composite backed away from records to close lower on Tuesday, with the Dow industrials also dropping. Stocks slipped following data that showed a bigger-than-expected 1.3% drop in retail sales for May, while the producer-price index excluding food and energy rose 0.7%, against expectations for an increase of 0.5%.
The data provide a fresh economic backdrop for the Federal Reserve decision, which investors will be watching closely for any sign the central bank is nearing a reduction in the size of its bond-purchasing program. Such a signal could send bond prices lower and yields higher, which tends to be a negative for stock valuations.
“Given the recent elevated inflation readings and the middling jobs reports, this is among the most consequential Fed meetings in some time as the committee balances these aspects of the dual mandate,” said Scott Ruesterholz, portfolio manager at Insight Investment, which has $1.03 trillion in assets under management.
“There is a tremendous amount of uncertainty: how much of the inflation is being driven by transitory factors, like supply chain disruptions, and how much of the slower job growth is being driven by temporary measures like enhanced unemployment benefits,” he said in emailed comments.
But like others, Ruesterholz expects the Fed to “strike a patient tone, wanting to ensure they do not overreact and slow the pace of recovery.”
More data are ahead for Wednesday—building permits and housing starts and import prices for May.
The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note was unchanged at 1.4931%, while the U.S. dollar was also steady. Copper prices slipped, after China said it plans to release national metal reserves in a bid to cool a surge in commodities prices. That also hit shares of mining stocks in Europe, with Anglo American, Rio Tinto and Glencore weakening.
Oil prices hovered at two-year highs, with West Texas Intermediate crude up 0.7% to $72.64 and Brent crude rising nearly 0.8% to $74.55 a barrel. Investors are waiting on a weekly U.S. report from the Energy Information Administration that is expected to show a fourth straight weekly fall in domestic crude inventories.
Shares of Oracle could be active after the enterprise software company late on Tuesday reported better-than-expected fiscal fourth-quarter results, but softer-than-anticipated guidance for the August quarter. The stock has also rallied nearly 30% since mid-March, so investors may be compelled to take profits.
Germany’s Ifo Institute lowered its forecast for economic growth for the country in 2021 to 3.3% from 3.7% forecast in March, citing bottlenecks with supplies of intermediate products.


Hong Kong shares ended lower on Wednesday, as investors refrained from placing big bets ahead of U.S. Federal Reserve meeting outcome and after data showed that disruptions caused by COVID-19 outbreaks had eased growth in China's factory output.
BEIJING, June 16 (Reuters) - Hong Kong shares ended lower on Wednesday, as investors refrained from placing big bets ahead of U.S. Federal Reserve meeting outcome and after data showed that disruptions caused by COVID-19 outbreaks had eased growth in China’s factory output.
** At the close of trade, the Hang Seng index was down 201.69 points or 0.7% at 28,436.84. The Hang Seng China Enterprises index fell 0.99% to 10,562.97.
** The sub-index of the Hang Seng, tracking the material sector , slipped 5.4% and the IT sector dropped 1.85%, while the property sector dipped 0.43%.
** Recent data pointed to a quick recovery in overseas economies, raising domestic worries over tightening of liquidity, Hu Yunlong, a Beijing-based fund manager, said.
** Commodities-related stocks faced pressure for a correction, while other sectors with lofty valuations were also under pressure, leading to a retreat across the board, Hu said. ** The retreat from riskier assets followed data that showed growth in China’s factory output slowed for a third straight month in May, likely weighed down by disruptions caused by COVID-19 outbreaks in the country’s southern export powerhouse of Guangdong. Retail sales and investment growth also came in below market expectations.
** “Investors are nervous ahead of the U.S. Fed meeting as well as Fed’s hawkishness would push the dollar higher, pressuring the yuan,” Yan Kaiwen, an analyst with China Fortune Securities, said.
** The top gainer on the Hang Seng was HSBC Holdings PLC , which gained 1.58%, while the biggest loser was BYD Co Ltd, which fell 8.2%.
** China’s main Shanghai Composite index closed 1.07% lower at 3,518.33 points, while the blue-chip CSI300 index ended down 1.67%, dented by material and healthcare shares.
** Around the region, MSCI’s Asia ex-Japan stock index was weaker by 0.46%, while Japan’s Nikkei index closed down 0.51%.


World stock markets treaded water near record highs on Wednesday as investors braced for any hawkish signals from the conclusion of the Federal Reserve's two-day policy meeting, and oil prices hit their highest since April 2019 on recovering demand.
LONDON (Reuters) - World stock markets treaded water near record highs on Wednesday as investors braced for any hawkish signals from the conclusion of the Federal Reserve’s two-day policy meeting, and oil prices hit their highest since April 2019 on recovering demand.
FILE PHOTO: Passersby wearing protective masks walk past an electronic board showing Japan's Nikkei average, the exchange rate between Japanese yen against the U.S. dollar and other world's benchmarks outside a brokerage, amid the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) outbreak, in Tokyo, Japan September 14, 2020. REUTERS/Issei Kato/File photo
Investor bullishness about the economic recovery after COVID-19 and ample stimulus from central banks and governments has propelled stocks to record highs and pushed volatility across asset classes to levels last seen before the pandemic roiled markets in March 2020.
But inflation is also rising in the United States and elsewhere. Data on Wednesday showed UK inflation unexpectedly jumped above the Bank of England’s 2.0% target in May and hit 2.1%, and inflation looks set to rise further as Britain reopens its economy.
That makes the tone and content of Wednesday’s readout from the Fed’s meeting more important for global markets. Officials are expected to at least flag the pending start of talks about when and how to exit the policies introduced during the pandemic last year.
With markets having priced in the start of those talks about tapering but unsure whether rising inflation will encourage more aggressive action from the Fed and other central banks, some caution has crept in.
On Wednesday, the MSCI world equity index, which tracks shares in 49 countries, was flat on the day.
The Euro STOXX 600 was little changed. Britain’s FTSE 100 gained 0.24% and Germany’s DAX shed 0.1%.
Wall Street looked set to open slightly higher, and Asian shares were weaker.
“The FOMC (Federal Open Market Committee) meeting is highly unlikely to bring any changes to either rates or the pace of asset purchases,” UniCredit analysts said.
“However, we expect the Fed to signal that, if the economy continues to recover strongly, it will likely be appropriate to begin to discuss a plan for tapering the pace of asset purchases at some point in upcoming meetings.”
Key will be Fed members’ projections, or dot plots, for interest rates and whether more now tip a hike in 2023. Previously only seven out of 18 had seen such a move.
INFLATION PROJECTIONS
There could also be some upward movement in inflation projections for this year and next, as the last two readings on consumer prices surprised to the high side.
BofA’s latest survey of fund managers suggests most are sanguine on the outlook. Some 72% said inflation was transitory. Only 23% saw it as permanent.
“Investors are bullishly positioned for permanent growth, transitory inflation and a peaceful Fed taper via longs in commodities, cyclicals and financials,” said BofA, suggesting the market was vulnerable to any hint of Fed hawkishness.
Bond investors remain sanguine about the prospect of a shift in policy thinking.
Benchmark 10-year U.S. Treasury yields held at 1.494%, a quarter of a percentage point below 2021 highs, while the European Union raised 20 billion euros in 10-year debt yielding less than 0.1% amid near-record demand.
The only signs of investor nervousness were evident in currency markets where the dollar held near a one-month high.
Sterling gained 0.2% versus the dollar but at just above $1.41 remained within recent ranges. The euro traded at $1.213.
In commodity markets, gold was pinned at $1,859 an ounce and not far from a one-month trough of $1,843.
Copper lost some ground as China confirmed it would release some reserves of the base metal, as well as aluminium and zinc to help contain recent price rises in commodities.
Oil prices continued their bullish run to hit their highest in more than two years amid signs of stronger demand and still tight supplies. [O/R]
Brent climbed 37 cents to $74.36 a barrel and was aiming for the 2019 peak of $75.63, while U.S. crude added 54 cents to $72.66.
Cryptocurrency prices were calm, with Bitcoin holding a little above $40,000.


The first bond sold backing the EU's COVID-19 recovery fund rallied strongly a day after issuance on Wednesday, while euro area government bond yields dipped as investors awaited the outcome of the U.S. Federal Reserve's policy meeting.
(Reuters) - The first bond sold backing the EU’s COVID-19 recovery fund rallied strongly a day after issuance on Wednesday, while euro area government bond yields dipped as investors awaited the outcome of the U.S. Federal Reserve’s policy meeting.
FILE PHOTO: European Union flags flutter outside the EU Commission headquarters in Brussels, Belgium May 5, 2021. REUTERS/Yves Herman/File Photo
The European Union raised 20 billion euros ($24.26 billion) from a 10-year bond sale on Tuesday in the largest-ever single-tranche institutional debt sale that saw near-record demand of 142 billion euros.
That kicks off up to 800 billion euros of bond issuance until end-2026 to finance the recovery fund that will establish the EU as a leading issuer.
The bond rallied sharply in the secondary market in further evidence of strong demand, demonstrating that the market easily absorbed the vast issuance.
The yield, 0.086% at pricing, fell nearly 6 basis points to 0.035% on Wednesday.
The rally was similar to that following the EU’s first debt issuance backing the SURE unemployment scheme, a smaller support programme.
“Even we’re a little surprised that it’s managed to perform that well that quickly, given the size,” a banker involved with the bond sale said.
Investors were keen to buy the first issuance of what will become a much more liquid funding programme than SURE, while a recent cheapening of EU debt also helped to attract investors, the banker said.
The ECB’s decision to uphold accelerated bond purchases for the third quarter has also given investors confidence to buy into sizable debt sales.
In the broader market, bond yields dipped as the focus was on the conclusion of the U.S. Federal Reserve meeting.
Germany’s 10-year yield, the euro area benchmark, was down nearly a basis point to -0.24%, along with most other 10-year yields.
Fed officials are expected to at least flag the pending start of talks on tapering its bond purchases, while attention will also be on new interest rate and economic projections to show how much policymakers’ views have changed since March.
In recent weeks, bond yields, which have fallen on both sides of the Atlantic - closely correlated - have shrugged off a spike in U.S. inflation.
“U.S. yields will probably be the main driver of direction of European yields over the coming three months and I think the Fed rhetoric on tapering and where their inflation targets are will be of interest,” said Nick Sanders, portfolio manager at AllianceBernstein.
In the primary market, Germany will raise 5 billion euros from the auction of a new 10-year bond.
($1 = 0.8244 euros)


World stock markets treaded water near record highs on Wednesday as investors braced for any hawkish signals from the conclusion of the Federal Reserve's two-day policy meeting, and oil prices hit their highest since April 2019 on recovering demand.
World stock markets treaded water near record highs on Wednesday as investors braced for any hawkish signals from the conclusion of the Federal Reserve's two-day policy meeting, and oil prices hit their highest since April 2019 on recovering demand. Investor bullishness about the economic recovery after COVID-19 and ample stimulus from central banks and governments has propelled stocks to record highs and pushed volatility across asset classes to levels last seen before the pandemic roiled markets in March 2020.
But inflation is also rising in the United States and elsewhere. Data on Wednesday showed UK inflation unexpectedly jumped above the Bank of England's 2.0% target in May and hit 2.1%, and inflation looks set to rise further as Britain reopens its economy. That makes the tone and content of Wednesday's readout from the Fed's meeting more important for global markets. Officials are expected to at least flag the pending start of talks about when and how to exit the policies introduced during the pandemic last year.
Advertisement
With markets having priced in the start of those talks about tapering but unsure whether rising inflation will encourage more aggressive action from the Fed and other central banks, some caution has crept in. On Wednesday, the MSCI world equity index, which tracks shares in 49 countries, was flat on the day.
The Euro STOXX 600 was little changed. Britain's FTSE 100 gained 0.24% and Germany's DAX shed 0.1%. Wall Street looked set to open slightly higher, and Asian shares were weaker.
"The FOMC (Federal Open Market Committee) meeting is highly unlikely to bring any changes to either rates or the pace of asset purchases," UniCredit analysts said. "However, we expect the Fed to signal that, if the economy continues to recover strongly, it will likely be appropriate to begin to discuss a plan for tapering the pace of asset purchases at some point in upcoming meetings."
Key will be Fed members' projections, or dot plots, for interest rates and whether more now tip a hike in 2023. Previously only seven out of 18 had seen such a move. INFLATION PROJECTIONS
There could also be some upward movement in inflation projections for this year and next, as the last two readings on consumer prices surprised to the high side. BofA's latest survey of fund managers suggests most are sanguine on the outlook. Some 72% said inflation was transitory. Only 23% saw it as permanent. "Investors are bullishly positioned for permanent growth, transitory inflation and a peaceful Fed taper via longs in commodities, cyclicals and financials," said BofA, suggesting the market was vulnerable to any hint of Fed hawkishness.
Bond investors remain sanguine about the prospect of a shift in policy thinking. Benchmark 10-year U.S. Treasury yields held at 1.494%, a quarter of a percentage point below 2021 highs, while the European Union raised 20 billion euros in 10-year debt yielding less than 0.1% amid near-record demand.
The only signs of investor nervousness were evident in currency markets where the dollar held near a one-month high . Sterling gained 0.2% versus the dollar but at just above $1.41 remained within recent ranges. The euro traded at $1.213.
In commodity markets, gold was pinned at $1,859 an ounce and not far from a one-month trough of $1,843. Copper lost some ground as China confirmed it would release some reserves of the base metal, as well as aluminium and zinc to help contain recent price rises in commodities.
Oil prices continued their bullish run to hit their highest in more than two years amid signs of stronger demand and still tight supplies. Brent climbed 37 cents to $74.36 a barrel and was aiming for the 2019 peak of $75.63, while U.S. crude added 54 cents to $72.66.
Cryptocurrency prices were calm, with Bitcoin holding a little above $40,000. (Additional reporting by Wayle Cole in Sydney, Editing by Timothy Heritage)
(This story has not been edited by Devdiscourse staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)


Gains in financial and industrial stocks lifted European shares on Wednesday, though the main equity index held off record highs on nervousness that the U.S. Federal Reserve could flag later in the day when it plans to start unwinding its stimulus.
Gains in financial and industrial stocks lifted European shares on Wednesday, though the main equity index held off record highs on nervousness that the U.S. Federal Reserve could flag later in the day when it plans to start unwinding its stimulus. The pan-European STOXX 600 was up 0.2% by 0745 GMT. If gains hold until the end of the day, the index will mark its longest gaining streak in three-and-a-half years.
The benchmark index has now risen for five straight weeks as investors bet a steady vaccination programme would jumpstart regional economic growth, but a recent rise in inflation has sparked concerns of a sooner-than-expected tightening in global monetary policy. After dovish signals from the European Central Bank last week, the U.S. Federal Reserve on Wednesday is expected to at least flag the pending start of talks about when and how to exit from crisis-era policies put in place at the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic.
Advertisement
"The street is heavily positioned with the Fed in the transitory indication corner," said Jeffrey Halley, a market analyst at OANDA. "The (Fed) is unlikely to rock the boat tonight, and if they did, it would be a massive surprise."
In Europe, heavyweight industrial and financial stocks rose 0.5% each, while energy stocks tracked a jump in Brent crude to its highest since April 2019. Technology shares, however, slipped 0.2% as SAP fell 0.9%, hit possibly by a disappointing profit forecast from U.S. software rival Oracle Corp.
London's FTSE 100 led gains in the region even as data showed British inflation unexpectedly jumped above the Bank of England's 2.0% target in May and looked set to rise further as the country re-opens its economy from lockdowns. In company news, EverArc Holdings Ltd jumped 8% as it said it would buy firefighting products and lubricant additives manufacturer Perimeter Solutions in a deal valued at about $2 billion.
Spanish solar power developer Solarpack surged 43.3% as it disclosed a takeover bid from Swedish fund EQT valued at a maximum of 881.2 million euros ($1.07 billion). EQT shares fell 0.6%, while the Spanish bourse was flat.
(This story has not been edited by Devdiscourse staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)


Gains in financial and industrial stocks lifted European shares on Wednesday, though the main equity index held off record highs on nervousness that the U.S. Federal Reserve could flag later in the day when it plans to start unwinding its stimulus.
(Reuters) -Gains in financial and industrial stocks lifted European shares on Wednesday, though the main equity index held off record highs on nervousness that the U.S. Federal Reserve could flag later in the day when it plans to start unwinding its stimulus.
FILE PHOTO: The German share price index DAX graph is pictured at the stock exchange in Frankfurt, Germany, June 15, 2021. REUTERS/Staff/File photo
The pan-European STOXX 600 was up 0.2% by 0745 GMT. If gains hold until the end of the day, the index will mark its longest gaining streak in three-and-a-half years.
The benchmark index has now risen for five straight weeks as investors bet a steady vaccination programme would jumpstart regional economic growth, but a recent rise in inflation has sparked concerns of a sooner-than-expected tightening in global monetary policy.
After dovish signals from the European Central Bank last week, the U.S. Federal Reserve on Wednesday is expected to at least flag the pending start of talks about when and how to exit from crisis-era policies put in place at the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic.
“The street is heavily positioned with the Fed in the transitory indication corner,” said Jeffrey Halley, a market analyst at OANDA.
“The (Fed) is unlikely to rock the boat tonight, and if they did, it would be a massive surprise.”
In Europe, heavyweight industrial and financial stocks rose 0.5% each, while energy stocks tracked a jump in Brent crude to its highest since April 2019. [O/R]
Technology shares, however, slipped 0.2% as SAP fell 0.9%, hit possibly by a disappointing profit forecast from U.S. software rival Oracle Corp.
London’s FTSE 100 led gains in the region even as data showed British inflation unexpectedly jumped above the Bank of England’s 2.0% target in May and looked set to rise further as the country re-opens its economy from lockdowns. [.L]
In company news, EverArc Holdings Ltd jumped 8% as it said it would buy firefighting products and lubricant additives manufacturer Perimeter Solutions in a deal valued at about $2 billion.
Spanish solar power developer Solarpack surged 43.3% as it disclosed a takeover bid from Swedish fund EQT valued at a maximum of 881.2 million euros ($1.07 billion).
EQT shares fell 0.6%, while the Spanish bourse was flat.


Gains in financial and industrial stocks lifted European shares on Wednesday, though the main equity index held off record highs on nervousness that the U.S. Federal Reserve could flag later in the day when it plans to start unwinding its stimulus.
(Reuters) -Gains in financial and industrial stocks lifted European shares on Wednesday, though the main equity index held off record highs on nervousness that the U.S. Federal Reserve could flag later in the day when it plans to start unwinding its stimulus.
FILE PHOTO: The German share price index DAX graph is pictured at the stock exchange in Frankfurt, Germany, June 15, 2021. REUTERS/Staff/File photo
The pan-European STOXX 600 was up 0.2% by 0745 GMT. If gains hold until the end of the day, the index will mark its longest gaining streak in three-and-a-half years.
The benchmark index has now risen for five straight weeks as investors bet a steady vaccination programme would jumpstart regional economic growth, but a recent rise in inflation has sparked concerns of a sooner-than-expected tightening in global monetary policy.
After dovish signals from the European Central Bank last week, the U.S. Federal Reserve on Wednesday is expected to at least flag the pending start of talks about when and how to exit from crisis-era policies put in place at the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic.
“The street is heavily positioned with the Fed in the transitory indication corner,” said Jeffrey Halley, a market analyst at OANDA.
“The (Fed) is unlikely to rock the boat tonight, and if they did, it would be a massive surprise.”
In Europe, heavyweight industrial and financial stocks rose 0.5% each, while energy stocks tracked a jump in Brent crude to its highest since April 2019. [O/R]
Technology shares, however, slipped 0.2% as SAP fell 0.9%, hit possibly by a disappointing profit forecast from U.S. software rival Oracle Corp.
London’s FTSE 100 led gains in the region even as data showed British inflation unexpectedly jumped above the Bank of England’s 2.0% target in May and looked set to rise further as the country re-opens its economy from lockdowns. [.L]
In company news, EverArc Holdings Ltd jumped 8% as it said it would buy firefighting products and lubricant additives manufacturer Perimeter Solutions in a deal valued at about $2 billion.
Spanish solar power developer Solarpack surged 43.3% as it disclosed a takeover bid from Swedish fund EQT valued at a maximum of 881.2 million euros ($1.07 billion).
EQT shares fell 0.6%, while the Spanish bourse was flat.


China shares ended lower on Wednesday, dragged down by losses in material and healthcare stocks, as investors worried over lofty valuations and the outcome of a U.S. Federal Reserve meeting that could prompt foreign outflows.
BEIJING, June 16 (Reuters) - China shares ended lower on Wednesday, dragged down by losses in material and healthcare stocks, as investors worried over lofty valuations and the outcome of a U.S. Federal Reserve meeting that could prompt foreign outflows.
At the close of trade, the Shanghai Composite index was down 1.07% at 3,518.33 and the blue-chip CSI300 index lost 1.67%, having finished weaker on Tuesday.
Analysts said there was a lack of factors for any upside momentum, while lofty valuations in some parts of the market were a cause of concern.
The market was also under pressure from rising Sino-West tensions after G7 leaders took the Asian nation to task over a range of issues, which Beijing called a gross interference in the country’s internal affairs.
Among the worst-performing sectors on Wednesday, the material sub-index slumped 3.08% as a report on restrictions over state-owned firms’ overseas commodity exposure accelerated a sell-off in the sector.
The healthcare sub-index lost 3.01%, with sector heavyweight Wuxi AppTec Co Ltd sliding 5.53%.
The smaller Shenzhen index ended down 2.34% and the start-up board ChiNext Composite index was weaker by 4.18%.
“Investors are also nervous ahead of the U.S. Fed meeting, as Fed’s hawkishness would push the dollar higher, pressuring the yuan and weighing on the A-share market by prompting foreign outflows,” said Yan Kaiwen, an analyst with China Fortune Securities.
China’s central bank has directed financial institutions to hold more foreign exchange in reserve, a move that analysts say could help temper a rally in the yuan after the currency hit a three-year high against the dollar on Monday.
Long-term appreciation in the yuan could have a large negative impact on China’s economy even if there was no substantial effect on the country’s exports in the short term, a former senior official at China’s foreign exchange regulator warned.
Around the region, MSCI’s Asia ex-Japan stock index was weaker by 0.42%.


Treasury yields fell slightly early on Wednesday, even as investors awaited the outcome of the Federal Reserve's policy meeting in the afternoon.
The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell less than a basis point to 1.496% at 3:45 a.m. ET. The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond drifted lower to 2.195%. Yields move inversely to prices.
U.S. Treasury yields fell slightly early on Wednesday, even as investors awaited the much-anticipated outcome of the Federal Reserve's policy meeting in the afternoon.
The Federal Open Market Committee is set to wrap up its two-day monetary policy meeting at 2 p.m. ET on Wednesday afternoon, with the release of its usual statement and quarterly economic projections. Fed Chairman Jerome Powell is then due to hold a press briefing at 2:30 p.m. ET.
The Fed is not expected to take any action in this meeting but economists expect the central bank to signal that it is starting to think about tapering bond purchases.
The Fed will also release new forecasts on Wednesday, which could indicate a possible first rate hike penciled in for 2023. Previously, Fed officials hadn't come to a consensus for a rate hike through 2023.
Scott Ruesterholz, portfolio manager at Insight Investment, said on Tuesday that this was among the "most consequential Fed meetings in some time as the committee balances these aspects of the dual mandate."
"There is a tremendous amount of uncertainty: how much of the inflation is being driven by transitory factors, like supply chain disruptions, and how much of the slower job growth is being driven by temporary measures like enhanced unemployment benefits," Ruesterholz explained.
In light of this uncertainty, Ruesterholz said his firm expected the Fed to strike a "patient tone" in this meeting, "wanting to ensure they do not overreact and slow the pace of recovery."
He added that Insight Investment did not expect the Fed to "rush into tapering" in this meeting. Instead, the firm expected the central bank's annual economic symposium in Jackson Hole in August a likelier starting point for discussion of tapering, "paving the way for an official announcement potentially by December of this year."


