The Federal Reserve will raise rates. Do you know how to trade the S&P 500 and Nasdaq afterwards? Here are the key levels to know now.
Bloomberg
(Bloomberg) -- Technology stocks have tumbled into a bear market this year in anticipation of higher interest rates. With the Federal Reserve set to begin delivering on those expectations Wednesday, where the likes of Nvidia Corp. and Zscaler Inc. go from here will hinge on signals about how quickly further rate hikes might come.Most Read from BloombergUkraine Update: Russia Keeps Up Shelling Ahead of More Talks7.3 Magnitude Quake Hits North Japan, Tsunami Risk RecedingLuxury Cruise Ship Runs Ag


Global equity markets and U.S. Treasury yields rose on Wednesday as investors expected the Federal Reserve to raise U.S. interest rates, and grew more hopeful for a breakthrough in ceasefire talks between Russian and Ukraine.
Global equity markets and U.S. Treasury yields rose on Wednesday as investors expected the Federal Reserve to raise U.S. interest rates, and grew more hopeful for a breakthrough in ceasefire talks between Russian and Ukraine. The Fed will likely end to its ultra-easy pandemic-era monetary policy with a rate rise of at least 25 basis points to fight surging inflation. Traders will also parse the tone of the Fed's policy statement and watch details of projected economic conditions. Benchmark 10-year U.S. Treasury yields hit the highest in almost three years, hours before the Fed decision was expected. The yields were last at 2.1777%. During the session they reached 2.204%, the highest since May 2019. "The quarter-point hike is already in the market, already known. What will have an effect on the market is what the Fed ends up saying after the announcement, whether they seem hawkish or dovish," said Michael Ashley Schulman, chief investment officer at Running Point Capital in California. MSCI's world equity index, which tracks shares in 50 countries, gained 2.41%. European stocks rose, rebounding from a loss the previous session, with sentiment buoyed by positive comments from Ukrainian and Russian officials on prospects of an agreement to end the three-weeks old conflict. The pan-European STOXX 600 index rose 3.07%, while MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan had closed 5.1% higher overnight. On Wall Street, the three main indexes were trading up ahead of the Fed's anticipated rate hike announcement, driven by stocks in the technology, financials and consumer discretionary sectors.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 1.2% to 33,946.4, the S&P 500 gained 1.64% to 4,332.16 and the Nasdaq Composite added 2.57% to 13,281.65. "At this point, I think you have a lot of active investors and hedge funds that are seeking any news that would make for a tradable bottom despite the dire global macro scenario of inflation, rising rates, and a horrible war in Russia-Ukraine," Schulman added.
Oil bounced all over the place in another volatile session as traders reacted to the peace talks and a surprising increase in U.S. inventories. Benchmark Brent crude had swung between $97.55 and $103.70 and was at $99.54 per barrel, down 0.37% in early afternoon trading. U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude rose 0.15% to $96.58. The U.S. dollar slid further from almost two-year highs reached over the past week, while Ukraine peace hopes pushed the euro higher. The dollar index fell 0.317%, with the euro up 0.47% to $1.1002. Safe-haven gold fell to more than a two-week low. Spot gold dropped 0.5% to $1,908.83 an ounce, while U.S. gold futures fell 0.76% to $1,913.80 an ounce.
(This story has not been edited by Devdiscourse staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)


London's FTSE 100 rose to near two-week highs on Wednesday as prospects of peace talks between Russia and Ukraine and Chinese stimulus lifted investor sentiment globally, while investors awaited the U.S. Federal Reserve's policy decision due later in the day.
London's FTSE 100 rose to near two-week highs on Wednesday as prospects of peace talks between Russia and Ukraine and Chinese stimulus lifted investor sentiment globally, while investors awaited the U.S. Federal Reserve's policy decision due later in the day. The blue-chip FTSE 100 climbed 1.6%, with base metal miners and banks leading the gains, while the domestically focused mid-cap index advanced 3.2%.
The Fed is expected to raise interest rates for the first time in three years later on Wednesday and give guidance on future tightening. "Focus will be on Fed's inflation forecast for next year and 2024, as that will provide insights into whether it sees (inflation) on the back of Ukraine crisis as something short term or more structural," said Stuart Cole, head macro economist at Equiti Capital.
Base metal miners jumped 2.9%, lifted by supply concerns and promises of more economic stimulus in top consumer China, while banks, which are likely to benefit in a higher interest environment, rose 3.4%. The sharp turnaround in Chinese markets also boosted financial stocks that do a lot of business in the region like Prudential and Standard Chartered, according to Michael Hewson, chief market analyst at CMC Markets UK. With inflation rising to 40-year highs and data showing a drop in the UK unemployment rate below pre-pandemic levels, investors are widely expecting the Bank of England to lift interest rates by 25 basis points on Thursday.
Among individual stocks, Avast fell 13.3% after Britain's anti-trust regulator launched an in-depth probe into U.S. cybersecurity firm NortonLifeLock Inc's $8.6 billion purchase of the company. Defense company BAE Systems fell 3.6% on hopes around the Russia-Ukraine peace talks, after rising nearly 28.4% so far this year.
IG Group shed 0.8% after the online trading platform forecast full-year revenue to "moderately" exceed expectations, as the Ukraine crisis increases market volatility, but it predicted slower growth on its U.S. platform.
(This story has not been edited by Devdiscourse staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)


The Federal Reserve lifted its policy interest rate for the first time since 2018 and penciled in six more rate increases this year as it tries to combat a burst of quick price increases.
The Federal Reserve lifted its key interest rate by a quarter of a percentage point on Wednesday as policymakers took their first decisive step toward trying to tame rapid inflation by cooling the economy.
The Fed had kept rates near zero since March 2020, and the decision marked its first increase since 2018. Policymakers also projected six more similarly sized increases over the course of 2022 as inflation comes in at a 40-year high, signaling that they are going to pull back support for the economy markedly.
“The economy no longer needs — or wants — these, this very highly accommodative stance,” Jerome H. Powell, the Fed chair, said during his post-meeting news conference.
The Fed is at an inflection point after two years of trying to help the economy to recover from the damage inflicted by the global pandemic. While the coronavirus continues to disrupt commerce around the world, the United States economy has staged a swift recovery. America’s job market has rebounded rapidly from steep pandemic job losses that had pushed unemployment to 14.7 percent, and businesses are now struggling to find workers.
A surge in consumer spending has helped to push the rate of inflation to levels not seen since the 1980s. Instead of echoing the anemic slog back from the 2007-9 recession — one that kept millions of applicants out of work and left inflation tepid despite years of rock-bottom rates — the pandemic bounce-back has been vigorous.
Judging by inflation, it may even have too much heat, which is why the Fed is trying to slow the economy down to a more sustainable pace.
“We’ve had price stability for a very long time, and maybe come to take it for granted — but now we see the pain,” Mr. Powell said. “We’re strongly committed, as a committee, to not allowing this higher inflation to become entrenched, and to use our tools to bring inflation back down to more normal levels.”
Mr. Powell said the labor market and economy are so strong that the Fed thinks that both can handle higher interest rates. He said he does not expect a recession this year.
“The economy, we think, can handle interest rate increases,” he said.
Higher interest rates will trickle out through markets to make mortgages, car loans and borrowing by businesses more expensive. That is expected to slow consumption and investment, reducing demand in the economy and — Fed officials hope — eventually weighing down surging prices.
Central bankers plotted a notably more aggressive plan for controlling inflation than in December, when they last released economic projections. Officials now expect to raise rates to 2.8 percent by the end of 2023, based on the median estimate, up from 1.6 percent in their prior projections. That is high enough that, by the Fed’s own estimates, it might amount to actually tapping the brakes on the economy — not just taking a foot off the gas pedal.
The Fed’s Current Projections What Federal Reserve officials think rates should be in the next two years. End of 2023 End of 2022 Five Fed officials now think that rates could be higher than 3 percent by the end of 2023. 3.5 % 3.0 2.5 2.0 Each rectangle represents one Fed official’s judgment. 1.5 1.0 Current target rate 0.25% to 0.5% range 0.5 0 End of 2023 End of 2022 4.0 % Each square represents one Fed official’s judgment. 3.5 Five Fed officials now think that rates could be higher than 3 percent by the end of 2023. 3.0 2.5 2.0 1.5 1.0 0.5 Current target rate 0.25% to 0.5% range 0
“They knew their policy didn’t match the economic backdrop, and this is catch-up,” said Priya Misra, the head of global rates strategy at TD Securities. “They’re giving a tough message that they expect they will have to slow growth to bring inflation under control.”
With the help of their policy changes, central bankers expect inflation to begin to moderate on its own this year, but they have become concerned that a meaningful deceleration will take time.
The Fed’s quarterly economic projections, released alongside the rate decision, showed that officials expected inflation to hover around 4.3 percent at the end of 2022. While that is less than 6.1 percent increase in the 12 months through January, it is well above the Fed’s goal of 2 percent.
Mr. Powell on Wednesday noted that inflation is “well above” the Fed’s target and that supply chain disruptions have been larger and longer lasting than expected. Higher energy prices are further elevating inflation just as price increases broaden beyond areas directly impacted by the pandemic, seeping into rent and other service prices.
“High inflation takes a toll on everyone, but really, especially, on people who use most of their income to buy essentials like food, housing, and transportation,” Mr. Powell said.
The Fed aims for both price stability and maximum employment, and central bank officials have indicated that the labor market is meeting that latter goal, though they hope more workers will return as fears of catching the coronavirus ease and as child-care issues tied to school shutdowns and other virus mitigation measures fade.
Unemployment has dropped sharply, job openings are plentiful, and there are too few workers to go around. A booming job market has helped to push wage growth higher because employers are competing for workers and trying to retain their existing employees by paying more. Higher compensation could fuel inflation down the road, some economists worry: It gives workers more wherewithal to spend, and it leaves firms trying to cover climbing labor costs.
From an inflation standpoint, Mr. Powell said, recent wage growth has not been sustainable.
There is a “misalignment of demand and supply, particularly in the labor market, and that is leading to wages moving up in ways that are not consistent with 2 percent inflation over time,” he said.
James Bullard, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, voted against the committee’s decision because he favored a larger interest rate increase of half a percentage point.
Mr. Bullard and some other Fed officials have argued that it would be a good idea to move rates up more quickly at first to signal that the central bank is prepared to beat back rapid price increases. But Mr. Powell made clear that, even if it is moving rates up steadily, the central bank as a whole knows it needs to act to restore price stability.
“We’re not going to let high inflation become entrenched,” Mr. Powell said.
At the same time, the Fed does not want to stoke uncertainty at a moment of towering geopolitical tensions. The Federal Open Market Committee directly addressed the possible economic implications of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine in its statement.
“The invasion of Ukraine by Russia is causing tremendous human and economic hardship,” Fed officials said in their statement. “The implications for the U.S. economy are highly uncertain, but in the near term the invasion and related events are likely to create additional upward pressure on inflation and weigh on economic activity.”
While Mr. Powell reinforced time and again how important it is to do whatever it takes to get inflation under control, he also made it clear that central bankers are hoping to engineer a soft landing: A situation where they can slow growth down to a maintainable level without derailing the economy and causing a recession.
Image Jerome H. Powell, the Fed chair, earlier this month. Credit... T.J. Kirkpatrick for The New York Times
Asked about that calibration on Wednesday, Mr. Powell said that, in his view, “the probability of a recession within the next year is not particularly elevated.” He cited strong demand, a healthy labor market and other conditions that he said were “signs” that the economy will be able to flourish “in the face of less accommodative monetary policy.”
In the 1980s, the Fed pushed interest rates to high levels — above the level of inflation — in order to slow the economy and weigh down inflation. In the process, central bank policy caused a recession that pushed unemployment up to nearly 11 percent.
Most economists have said that such a painful repeat is unlikely, though many have warned that a gentle, easy end to the current inflationary burst is not assured.
“It is way too soon to say it’s a pipe dream; it’s been a crazy year,” Jason Furman, an economist at Harvard University, said earlier this week of the possibility of a soft landing. “It feels, with every passing month, increasingly unlikely.”
But the effects of the Fed’s actions to control inflation are likely to be palpable. Mortgage rates have already climbed thanks to the central bank’s signals that it would raise interest rates and, in coming months, begin to trim its balance sheet of bond holdings.
As higher rates weigh on hiring, they could eventually slow wage growth, and higher borrowing costs are likely to keep asset prices — including for stocks and homes — from rising as much as they draw buyers and investors away.


The Federal Reserve is expected to raise interest rates, but it's how hawkish Jerome Powell and the Fed sound in the forecast that's key for the U.S. economy.
"It is high and elevated and rising at a rapid pace," she said. "The Fed has to worry about inflation. We're not talking about just 3%. It's close to 8%. This is a massive overshoot."
Fed Chair Powell indicated during recent testimony that he sees inflation running a little faster than the Fed's previous expectation, and any adjustment from the Fed is significant, Bostjancic said. But her view of the inflation outlook remains much higher than the median forecast of 2.7% year over year through Q4 2022 — closer to 4% than 3%. This is based on a labor market that is strong and a consumer that is resilient, and the Fed being behind the curve on inflation already.
But it's not the base case for Bostjancic, even if she says the Fed won't be blind to these signals.
There are risks on both sides of the Fed equation. If it is too hawkish and tightens too quickly, that can send the financial markets into a convulsion and lead to a mass selling of risk assets which feeds back into the real economy. Recent action in the bond market showing a narrowing of the spread between the two-year and 10-year treasuries stoked fears of an inverted yield curve, which is a signal that this worst-case, recessionary scenario, could play out.
While there are complicating factors such as the war in Ukraine, the most prominent issue for the Fed is that economic growth remains quite strong. If the Fed is shy about raising rates and reducing the balance sheet because of war, there is a risk that it gets even further behind on inflation, Bostjancic says. Consumers are still sitting on a high level of savings and benefitting from rising wages, and if the Fed gets further behind the curve on inflation by waiting, it will only increase the risk of the central bank becoming more hawkish later on.
The Federal Reserve is about to raise its benchmark interest rate for the first time since 2018, but it's already time for the market to look past this well-telegraphed move, according to Kathy Bostjancic, chief U.S. economist at Oxford Economics.
The "dot plot" and the Fed's economic projections for GDP and inflation will need to be digested by the market, but ultimately, it's how Fed Chair Jerome Powell frames the Fed thinking on Wednesday that matters most. "I want to hear how he handicaps the risks around growth and inflation. That will tell me something about the Fed's reaction function and that is the forward guidance," Bostjancic said.
While oil prices and the pain at the pump, which eased this week, caught the market's attention amid the outbreak of war in Europe, Bostjancic says food prices have double the weight of energy in the consumer price index and loom as an even larger factor in the inflation outlook — and are not immune to war. Commodities prices rising sharping are likely to get worse because of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, which impacts the production of wheat among other commodities and will reverberate through the global supply chain and "turbocharge food prices even higher," she said.
Powell has already said rate hikes are coming, in spite of the outbreak of war.
Oxford Economics is in line with a market view of 175 basis points of total tightening by the Fed this year, but isn't sure whether those hikes remain limited to 25 basis points or include the potential for a 50 basis point hike at some point. "Our view is that the economy is strong enough and demand still strong enough that even with the impact from war we still see growth at 3% or higher this year, so the Fed needs to get to a neutral rate as quickly as possible without destabilizing the market," Bostjancic said.
The situation is not "dramatically different" for the U.S.," she said. The U.S. economy is not immune to the war, but compared to Europe's economy, it is much better insulated. "I don't think Ukraine necessarily slows the economy enough to take the edge off inflation," she added.
Powell will need to provide a view on where his concern primarily lies — how does the shock of this war impacts the U.S. economy versus the shock on the inflation side and the growth side, and the market will be looking closely for any signals from the Fed chair on what he emphasizes more in the risk analysis.
But in the end, Bostjancic says, "The Fed has to come in. It can't control the war even if there is a knock-on effect in supply chains and scarcity of food and oil occur."
There is also no way for a central bank to project the potential for a ceasefire in war.
Even in Europe, the ECB recently showed itself to be more hawkish in inclination, holding rates but saying it would wind down stimulus sooner rather than later. "They need to fight inflation even if growth is slowing," Bostjancic said, and the ECB's recent policy views match an outlook on the Fed that suggests it can be more hawkish even in the face of larger uncertainty.
The war could potentially delay the Fed's balance sheet runoff, but by a month or two, and in her view, it should not alter the general path of normalization of both rates and the Fed's holdings in the bond market.
While this week's producer price index showed a slight undershoot of the inflation expectation and the latest wage inflation reading came down, the recent flow of data has reinforced that the inflationary pressures are still widespread and elevated, and the Fed needs to raise rates and has the ability to raise in a significant way. "They have to come in and cool things off," Bostjancic said.
The market has already priced in an aggressive rate hike profile, and the market is not likely to be told by the Fed to price in less than it already has. "The market is already in tightening conditions without the Fed having to do it. It's doing the work for the Fed," she said.


Wall Street's main indexes jumped on Wednesday, propelled by technology and financial stocks, as signs of progress in Ukraine-Russia peace talks lifted sentiment ahead of a widely expected interest rate hike by the Federal Reserve.
Wall Street's main indexes jumped on Wednesday, propelled by technology and financial stocks, as signs of progress in Ukraine-Russia peace talks lifted sentiment ahead of a widely expected interest rate hike by the Federal Reserve. New talk of compromise from both Moscow and Kyiv on a status for Ukraine outside of NATO lifted hope on Wednesday for a potential breakthrough after three weeks of war.
Nine of the 11 major S&P sectors advanced, with financials , technology and consumer discretionary shares - which largely endured the selloff this year - each climbing over 2.3%. Megacap names Apple Inc and Microsoft Corp rose 1.8% and 1.5%, respectively, powering the S&P 500 and the Nasdaq higher.
Big banks advanced 3% in anticipation of the first rate increase since 2018. Morgan Stanley led the gains with a 6.1% jump. The Fed is seen raising interest rates by at least 25 basis points later on Wednesday, in what would be the first in a series of increases this year as it steps up the fight against stubbornly high inflation.
The policy statement is due at 2 p.m. ET (1800 GMT) and will be followed by Fed Chair Jerome Powell's news conference. Traders will be closely watching the updated quarterly economic and interest rate projections for clues on how fast rates will increase. "The Fed in some ways was behind the curve. It gives the market a sense of comfort that the Fed is on the ball, they're going to start moving interest rates and we could get to a place where inflation begins to temper," said John Cunnison, chief investment officer at Baker Boyer in Walla Walla, Washington.
"Any good news on Ukraine is very likely to give market participants confidence that the Fed can increase rates without hurting growth." Historical data suggests tighter monetary policy has often been accompanied by solid gains in stocks. The S&P 500 has returned an average 7.7% in the first year the Fed raises rates, according to a Deutsche Bank study of 13 hiking cycles since 1955.
At 11:45 a.m. ET, the Dow Jones Industrial Average was up 349.25 points, or 1.04%, at 33,893.59, the S&P 500 was up 65.81 points, or 1.54%, at 4,328.26, and the Nasdaq Composite was up 343.86 points, or 2.66%, at 13,292.49. The CBOE volatility index, also known as Wall Street's fear gauge, fell to 27.54 points, its lowest level since Feb. 25.
The global mood was also buoyed by China's promise to roll out more stimulus for the economy and keep markets stable. U.S.-listed shares of Baidu, Alibaba Group , JD.com, Tencent Music, Pinduoduo Inc and Didi Global surged between 25% and 46.4% as China's securities regulator also said it would strive to reach an agreement on China-U.S. audit supervision cooperation.
Kohl's Corp gained 13.4% after Axios reported Hudson's Bay is considering a bid for the U.S. department store operator. Advancing issues outnumbered decliners by a 3.82-to-1 ratio on the NYSE and by a 4.11-to-1 ratio on the Nasdaq.
The S&P index recorded 15 new 52-week highs and no new lows, while the Nasdaq recorded 21 new highs and 53 new lows.
(This story has not been edited by Devdiscourse staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)


Consumer borrowing costs are headed higher as interest rate hikes are enacted by the U.S. Federal Reserve.
Consumer borrowing costs are headed higher as interest rate hikes are expected by the U.S. Federal Reserve starting on Wednesday.
Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell is expected to announce a raise in the central bank's key interest rate from near zero to combat rising inflation – a hurdle faced by cash-strapped small businesses that have already been forced to take on heavy debt loads during the COVID-19 crisis.
“It's still the case today that a lot of entrepreneurs, small business owners use credit cards," Neil Bradley, Executive Vice President and Chief Policy Officer at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, told Yahoo Finance Live (video above). "The credit card, all of us have in our pocket to fund their capital needs, their borrowing needs with respect to their business that makes them extremely sensitive to changes in interest rates."
Small business owners are generally expressing anxiety about the planned hikes, with the U.S. Chamber of Commerce finding that 70% expressed concern about rising interest rates.
Worker seen checking the cash register before mandatory close at Warehouse 4 Coffee Shop on March 15, 2020, in Vandalia, Ohio. (Photo by Brad LEE / AFP) (Photo by BRAD LEE/AFP via Getty Images)
Fed rate increases affect the rate of loans for things like homes, cars, and mortgages, meaning that consumers could soon tighten their belts and could have less disposable income to spend at neighborhood stores, bars, and restaurants.
"This is where we see one of the bigger differences between small and large businesses,” Bradley noted.
With inflation hitting record highs, large businesses have been planning for higher interest rates and factored that into their capital requirements and how they might meet their operational needs. For the smaller mom-and-pop business owner, there could be a challenging landscape ahead as they seek capital.
“It's still the case today that a lot of entrepreneurs, small business owners use credit cards," Bradley said. "The credit card, all of us have in our pocket to fund their capital needs, their borrowing needs with respect to their business that makes them extremely sensitive to changes in interest rates."
Story continues
And while others who aren’t using the credit cards, “often use home equity lines of credit on their businesses, again, interest rate sensitive,” Bradley explained.
According to a recent QuickBooks survey of 2,000 businesses, small businesses need increased access to capital to grow, with 45% citing “rising costs” as the biggest threat to their business. Furthermore, businesses that have relied on loans to survive during the pandemic could feel another pinch as interest rates rise.
In light of the rate hikes amid rising inflation as the pandemic seemingly wanes, Small Business Administrator Isabella Guzman told Yahoo Finance that the agency will “continue to fortify our programs and make sure that we have strong lending networks that we can distribute our loans to and better meet businesses, where they are with products that fit their needs."
Dani Romero is a reporter for Yahoo Finance. Follow her on Twitter: @daniromerotv
Read the latest financial and business news from Yahoo Finance
Follow Yahoo Finance on Twitter, Instagram, YouTube, Facebook, Flipboard, and LinkedIn


Consumer borrowing costs are headed higher as interest rate hikes are enacted by the U.S. Federal Reserve.
Consumer borrowing costs are headed higher as interest rate hikes are expected by the U.S. Federal Reserve starting on Wednesday.
Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell is expected to announce a raise in the central bank's key interest rate from near zero to combat rising inflation – a hurdle faced by cash-strapped small businesses that have already been forced to take on heavy debt loads during the COVID-19 crisis.
“It's still the case today that a lot of entrepreneurs, small business owners use credit cards," Neil Bradley, Executive Vice President and Chief Policy Officer at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, told Yahoo Finance Live (video above). "The credit card, all of us have in our pocket to fund their capital needs, their borrowing needs with respect to their business that makes them extremely sensitive to changes in interest rates."
Small business owners are generally expressing anxiety about the planned hikes, with the U.S. Chamber of Commerce finding that 70% expressed concern about rising interest rates.
Worker seen checking the cash register before mandatory close at Warehouse 4 Coffee Shop on March 15, 2020 in Vandalia, Ohio. - Ohio Governor Mike DeWine made it mandatory to shutdown all bars and restaurants starting at 9pm tonight in the state. (Photo by Brad LEE / AFP) (Photo by BRAD LEE/AFP via Getty Images)
Fed rate increases affect the rate of loans for things like homes, cars, and mortgages, meaning that consumers could soon tighten their belts and could have less disposable income to spend at neighborhood stores, bars, and restaurants.
"This is where we see one of the bigger differences between small and large businesses,” Bradley noted.
With inflation hitting record highs, large businesses have been planning for higher interest rates and factored that into their capital requirements and how they might meet their operational needs. For the smaller mom-and-pop business owner, there could be a challenging landscape ahead as they seek capital.
“It's still the case today that a lot of entrepreneurs, small business owners use credit cards," Bradley said. "The credit card, all of us have in our pocket to fund their capital needs, their borrowing needs with respect to their business that makes them extremely sensitive to changes in interest rates."
Story continues
And while others who aren’t using the credit cards, “often use home equity lines of credit on their businesses, again, interest rate sensitive,” Bradley explained.
According to a recent QuickBooks survey of 2,000 businesses, small businesses need increased access to capital to grow, with 45% citing “rising costs” as the biggest threat to their business. Furthermore, businesses who have relied on loans to survive during the pandemic could feel another pinch as interest rates rise.
In light of the rate hikes amid rising inflation as the pandemic seemingly wanes, Small Business Administrator Isabella Guzman told Yahoo Finance that the agency will “continue to affordify our programs and make sure that we have strong lending networks that we can distribute our loans to and better meet businesses, where they are with products that fit their needs."
Dani Romero is a reporter for Yahoo Finance. Follow her on Twitter: @daniromerotv
Read the latest financial and business news from Yahoo Finance
Follow Yahoo Finance on Twitter, Instagram, YouTube, Facebook, Flipboard, and LinkedIn


The Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas said Thursday the policy rates would remain data driven, and not dependent on the action by the US Federal Reserve which raised interest rates for the first time since 2018.
The Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas said Thursday the policy rates would remain data driven, and not dependent on the action by the US Federal Reserve which raised interest rates for the first time since 2018.
“We don’t need to move in pace with the Fed… but we will review our inflation outlook in our incoming policy meeting,” Diokno said, adding any policy decision by the Monetary Board would remain data driven—such as the latest numbers on inflation and domestic output—to avoid “unintended consequences.”
“The BSP has various tools. We have strong external buffers and liquidity-enhancing tools to stem the volatility that may arise due to the [US Fed] tightening. Our decision remains data dependent,” Diokno said.
The Federal Reserve on Wednesday increased interest rates and laid out an aggressive plan to push borrowing costs to restrictive levels next year. After keeping its benchmark interest rate anchored near zero since the COVID-19 pandemic struck, the Federal Open Market Committee said it would raise rates by 25 basis points, bringing the rate now into a range of 0.25 percent to 0.5 percent.
The move will correspond with a hike in the prime rate and immediately send financing costs higher for many forms of consumer borrowing and credit. Fed officials indicated the rate increases would come with slower economic growth this year.
ADVERTISEMENT
Diokno earier said there was no certain timetable for the BSP’s exit strategy from its pandemic interventions, especially with the onset of new COVID-19 variants that threaten the sustained recovery of the economy.
“We deem it prudent to leave some room for flexibility in policymaking to account for uncertainty and risk, especially as the situation remains very fluid,” he said.
Diokno said the timing and conditions under which the BSP would start unwinding its pandemic-induced interventions would continue to be guided by the inflation and growth outlook over the medium term and the risks surrounding such outlook. Julito G. Rada
The BSP in 2020 reduced the policy rate by a total of 200 basis points to a record-low 2 percent, and the reserve requirement ratios by another 200 basis points to 12 percent in a bid to unleash more liquidity into the financial system to be used by individuals and firms for productive activities.
It also extended provisional advances—a temporary arrangement between the BSP and the national government—to provide the government access to ample cash resources while revenue generation is weakened and fulfillment of the borrowing program is challenged by the scale of the borrowing need and the unpredictability of financial markets amid the pandemic.
The BSP injected around P2.3 trillion worth of liquidity into the domestic economy since the pandemic struck.
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.


The Federal Reserve will likely "increasingly err on the side of hawkish" in its approach for the remainder of 2022, said Moody's Analytics' Mark Zandi.
Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell testifies during the House Financial Services Committee hearing titled Oversight of the Treasury Department's and Federal Reserve's Pandemic Response, in Rayburn Building on Wednesday, December 1, 2021.
The Federal Reserve will likely "increasingly err on the side of hawkish" in its approach for the remainder of 2022, says Moody's Analytics' chief economist Mark Zandi.
The Fed is widely expected to raise interest rates by a quarter point Wednesday, which would mark its first interest rate hike since December 2018. It also reflects a significant departure from the easing put in place to aid the economy through the pandemic.
The expected rate hike reflects "where inflation is, where inflation expectations are, and just given the strength of the economy and a job market that is rip roaring," Zandi said. The Fed's decision is further compounded by uncertainty around the impact of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, and further supply chain disruptions.
"You add all that up, it says the Fed has to normalize interest rates quickly, and I think at this point more quickly than they think, at least in terms of their last forecast, and maybe even more quickly than what the markets think at this point," Zandi said.
Nearly half of the respondents to the latest CNBC Fed Survey said they see the central bank hiking rates five to seven times this year. While the survey shows that the rate hike cycle is seen ending at a peak fund rates of 2.4%, half of all respondents said they believe the central bank may have to raise rates above neutral to get control of inflation.
Zandi said there could be worries of stagflation, but he believes the Fed would "short circuit that before we actually get stagflation. I don't think they'll tolerate stagflation because they know based on historical experience that if we get into that scenario, we'll ultimately suffer a recession."
CNBC Fed Survey respondents see the probability of a recession occurring in the U.S. at 33% in the next 12 months, up 10 percentage points from the Feb. 1 survey.
Recent action in the bond market showing the spread between the two-year and 10-year Treasury bonds narrowing stoked fears of a yield inversion, which has been a recession signal in the past.
At this point, Zandi said the fixed income markets are saying that the "number one problem here that they've got to resolve is high inflation, inflation expectations. But doing that without breaking the economy, pushing it into a recession is very difficult ... right now, the bond market is signaling a high probability that the Fed missteps and fails."
"I don't think the market is signaling yet a recession but they're thinking along the same lines that I am – that it's going to be very difficult for the Federal Reserve to land the plane on the tarmac given all the things that are going on and all the things they have to navigate."
That uncertainty was certainly noted by Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell in his appearance before Congress on March 2.
"Making appropriate monetary policy in this environment requires a recognition that the economy evolves in unexpected ways," Powell said. "We will need to be nimble in responding to incoming data and the evolving outlook."


Wall Street's main indexes jumped on Wednesday, led by gains in technology and financial stocks, as signs of progress in Ukraine-Russia peace talks lifted sentiment ahead of a widely expected interest rate hike by the Federal Reserve.
Wall Street's main indexes jumped on Wednesday, led by gains in technology and financial stocks, as signs of progress in Ukraine-Russia peace talks lifted sentiment ahead of a widely expected interest rate hike by the Federal Reserve. Ten of the 11 major S&P sectors rose in early trading, with financials up 2.1%. Morgan Stanley climbed 3.5%, as big banks gained in anticipation of the first rate increase since 2018.
Megacap names Apple Inc and Microsoft Corp added 1.3% each, providing the biggest boost to the S&P 500 and the Nasdaq. Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskiy said negotiations were becoming "more realistic", while Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said there was "some hope for compromise".
The global mood was also lifted by China's promise to roll out more stimulus for the economy and keep markets stable, fueling a rally in U.S.-listed Chinese shares. The Fed is seen raising interest rates by at least 25 basis points at the end of its two-day meeting later in the day, in what would be the first in a series of rate hikes this year as it steps up the fight against stubbornly high inflation.
The policy statement is due at 2 p.m. ET (1800 GMT) and will be followed by Fed Chair Jerome Powell's news conference. Traders will be closely watching the updated quarterly economic and interest rate projections for clues on how fast rates will increase. "Everybody expects a 25-point rate hike later today, but it is probably going to be accompanied by a more cautious but not overly hawkish commentary," said Robert Pavlik, senior portfolio manager at Dakota Wealth in Fairfield, Connecticut.
"People are looking mainly for projections about rate hikes going forward and we expect that the Fed is not going to back off from the number of hikes that they are planning for this year but they may take a slower approach to do it." At 09:54 a.m. ET, the Dow Jones Industrial Average was up 359.28 points, or 1.07%, at 33,903.62, the S&P 500 was up 58.71 points, or 1.38%, at 4,321.16, and the Nasdaq Composite was up 265.62 points, or 2.05%, at 13,214.24.
The CBOE volatility index, also known as Wall Street's fear gauge, fell to 28.26 points, its lowest level since Feb. 25. Data released earlier showed U.S. retail sales increased moderately in February as more expensive gasoline and food forced households to cut back spending on other goods, which could restrain economic growth this quarter.
U.S.-listed shares of Baidu, Alibaba Group , JD.com, Tencent Music, Pinduoduo Inc Didi Global surged between 17.8% and 42.8% as China's securities regulator said it strive to reach an agreement on China-U.S. audit supervision cooperation. Kohl's Corp gained nearly 6% after Axios reported Canadian retail company Hudson's Bay is considering a bid for the U.S. department store operator.
Advancing issues outnumbered decliners by a 5.58-to-1 ratio on the NYSE and a 5.16-to-1 ratio on the Nasdaq. The S&P index recorded 14 new 52-week highs and no new lows, while the Nasdaq recorded 16 new highs and 34 new lows.
(This story has not been edited by Devdiscourse staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)


It would be the first rate hike since 2018 as the central bank looks to rein in inflation.
The Federal Reserve is poised to raise interest rates on Wednesday – a move to combat soaring inflation as the U.S. comes out of the pandemic and economic uncertainty in the wake of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. The expected quarter-point hike comes as prices have risen at their fastest pace in 40 years.
Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell said at a congressional hearing earlier this month that he supports raising the federal funds rate by 0.25%. Interest rates have been near 0% for about two years since the central bank cut rates as the coronavirus pandemic started in March 2020. This will be the first time the central bank has hiked the rate since the end of 2018.
Prices have increased 7.9% over the past year – the fastest rate of inflation since 1982. Last month, prices were up 0.8% – an acceleration from January. Personal consumption expenditures, the preferred measure used by the Federal Reserve, showed prices, excluding often-volatile food and energy, up 5.2% from a year ago and 0.5% in January.
While Powell signaled how much he wanted to raise the rate at the March meeting, he did not say how often he saw the Federal Reserve raising rates or by how much at subsequent meetings. Some economists have called for a more aggressive approach – with a .50% rate hike right out of the gate.
"They're behind the curve," said Greg McBride, chief financial analyst for Bankrate.com of the Federal Reserve. "If it hadn't been for the situation in Ukraine, there's a fair chance they would have come out of the box with a larger half-point increase."
The United States and its allies have slapped sanctions on Russian banks, businesses and individuals and restricted trade over its invasion of Ukraine, adding uncertainty as the Central Bank moves to rein in soaring prices.
"The timing couldn't be worse for the Federal Reserve, which is already chasing inflation for the first time since the 1980s," said Grant Thornton chief economist Diane Swonk. "The disruptions we are seeing are adding fuel to a well kindled inflation fire that goes well beyond the energy sector and could touch much more of our daily lives."
Meanwhile, inflation expectations for the short and medium term have gone up, according to the latest survey from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, reversing declines in January.
As prices continue to skyrocket, economists have been increasing their forecasts on how many times the Fed will raise rates this year – which could be as many as seven times.
If the Federal Reserve raises the federal interest rate, borrowing costs are going to go up for consumers. For credit card holders, a first increase of 0.25% may be inconsequential but multiple rate hikes over the next year or so could add up.
"It's that cumulative effect that should prompt you to take action now," said McBride. "Look to grab a 0% or other low rate balance transfer offer that can insulate you from the rate hikes we expect to see."
Mortgage rates have already been going up over the past few months in anticipation of higher rates and due to inflation. Auto loan rates are also expected to rise.
Should the Fed be more aggressive with raising interest rates, coupled with tightening spending power from higher costs for goods such as food and gas, economists have warned the chances of a recession next year have gone up.
But speaking Friday ahead of the Fed meeting, Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen, who previously chaired the Federal Reserve, said the economy is strong and households in general are in good financial shape. She noted record job creation and declines in unemployment. Last month, the unemployment rate hit 3.8%.
"One reason one might worry about a recession is that you think that monetary policy in bringing down inflation can cause that. We have seen that on some occasions in the past, but we've also seen episodes in which there is a soft landing," said Yellen. "I have confidence in the Fed to get inflation under control without causing a recession."


The Federal Reserve is expected today to raise short-term interest rates by 0.25%, marking the central bank's first substantial move to quell high inflation as prices rise at paces not seen in about 40 years.
The Federal Reserve is expected to raise short-term interest rates by 0.25%, marking the central bank's first substantial move to quell high inflation as prices rise at paces not seen in about 40 years, Wednesday afternoon.
The Fed has not raised interest rates since 2018. In the face of the COVID pandemic, the central bank slashed the target on its benchmark interest rate to near zero — where it has remained for two years.
More interest rate increases will be needed to slow inflation in the U.S. Fed policymakers will also likely lean on a reduction in its $9 trillion balance sheet to further pull back on its support to the economy.
But the Fed will have to navigate carefully. A war in Ukraine and COVID-induced shutdowns in China are raising the risk of a Fed tightening cycle in the midst of a global slowdown.
When the central bank releases its policy statement at 2 p.m. ET, keep an eye on the set of economic projections to be released alongside the statement. A round of "dot plots" mapping out each Fed policymaker's forecast for future interest rate hikes will be key to understanding the central bank's aggression in tackling inflation.
Fed Chairman Jerome Powell will answer questions from the press following the Fed's decision at 2:30 p.m. ET.
Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell testifies at a Senate Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs Committee hearing on the Fed's "Semiannual Monetary Policy Report to the Congress," on Capitol Hill on March 3, 2022 in Washington, DC. (Photo by Tom Williams-Pool/Getty Images)
Brian Cheung is a reporter covering the Fed, economics, and banking for Yahoo Finance. You can follow him on Twitter @bcheungz.
Follow Yahoo Finance on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, Flipboard, LinkedIn, YouTube, and reddit


Central banks are moving to tamp down inflation, with the U.S. Federal Reserve raising interest rates on Wednesday
Canada’s inflation rate hit a new three-decade high in February as consumers faced an array of price increases, adding pressure on the Bank of Canada to tame the situation with a speedy course of interest-rate hikes.
The Consumer Price Index rose 5.7 per cent in February from a year earlier, up from 5.1 per cent in January, Statistics Canada said on Wednesday. That was the highest inflation rate since August, 1991, and it marked the 11th consecutive month that inflation has surpassed the Bank of Canada’s target range of 1 per cent to 3 per cent.
Households are feeling the pinch on several fronts. Shelter costs rose 6.6 per cent, for the largest annual increase since 1983. Groceries rose 7.4 per cent, the most since 2009. And gas prices jumped 6.9 per cent in a single month.
The average of the central bank’s core measures of inflation – which strip out volatile components and give a better sense of broad-based price increases – rose to 3.5 per cent, also the highest since 1991.
Around two-thirds of the goods and services that make up Statscan’s CPI basket are experiencing inflation of more than 3 per cent, showing how sticker shock is getting tougher to avoid.
“If it feels like everything is getting more expensive, it’s because it is,” Royce Mendes, head of macro strategy at Desjardins Securities Inc., said in a note to clients.
Central bankers have embarked on a lengthy process to tamp down inflation. The U.S. Federal Reserve raised its benchmark interest rate on Wednesday from record lows, and for the first time since 2018. The Bank of Canada did the same earlier this month. Financial analysts expect both central banks to raise borrowing costs several times this year and next.
Rising prices, interest rates and inflation signal nauseating conditions for homebuyers this spring
Why inflation, commodities shocks are in the usual recipe for a recession
Throughout the pandemic, central bankers have consistently underestimated the scale and duration of inflation. The Bank of Canada in January projected that annual rates would average 5.1 per cent in the first quarter of 2022 – a forecast that is already short of reality. The U.S. inflation rate hit a 40-year high of 7.9 per cent in February.
The latest threat to consumer prices is the Russia-Ukraine war, which has led to surging costs for wheat, gasoline, fertilizer and other products, on fears of supply shortages. However, central bankers can do very little to calm volatility in global commodity markets, making the situation even more complicated.
Several analysts said on Wednesday that Canada’s inflation rate could reach – or exceed – 6 per cent in short order.
“Whether it’s a supply or demand shock is becoming less and less consequential,” said Jean-François Perrault, chief economist at Bank of Nova Scotia. The central bank is “behind the curve” on rate hikes “and they need to move aggressively to try and signal that they’re very serious about bringing inflation back to target.”
In a recent speech, Bank of Canada governor Tiff Macklem would not rule out a rate hike of 50 basis points later this year. (A basis point is 1/100th of a percentage point.) A hike of that magnitude has not happened since 2000.
A key concern is that consumers, who are sensitive to price increases at gas pumps and supermarkets, will begin to see steep inflation as a long-term reality.
Inflation can be self-fulfilling, in that companies set prices and workers negotiate wages in anticipation of expected costs. Their expectations of inflation over the next two years have risen substantially, but remain “well anchored” over a five-year horizon, the central bank has said.
Not everyone agrees. Scotiabank said on Tuesday that inflation expectations have already become unmoored. “As of late 2021, the [central bank’s] priority should have been squarely on inflation” rather than supporting the labour market, read the report, which was co-written by René Lalonde, a former research director at the Bank of Canada.
Scotiabank estimates the central bank’s key interest rate – now at 0.5 per cent – will end the year at 2.5 per cent, which is the quickest pace of rate hikes that a major bank is projecting.
That would heap pressure on a Canadian consumer who is loaded up on debt. The household debt burden – more formally known as the ratio of credit market debt to disposable income – rose to 186 per cent in the fourth quarter, the highest on record. The pandemic debt surge has been entirely driven by demand for residential mortgages.
Mr. Perrault said Canadians can handle a quick pace of rate hikes. The economy is growing quickly, highlighted by the addition of nearly 340,000 jobs in February, which took the employment rate back to prepandemic levels.
“Rates are rising in a remarkably strong growth environment,” he said. “To us, that means households are going to have much greater flexibility and greater ability to manage these higher rates than would be the case if inflation was going up and growth was not there.”
In February, consumers felt the impact of higher prices for dairy products, which rose 3.7 per cent from January. That stemmed from a decision last year by the Canadian Dairy Commission, a Crown corporation, to greatly increase the price that farmers receive for milk and butter, citing higher production costs. The decision was widely panned over its opaque nature and insensitive timing, given that grocery prices were already inflating quickly.
Food processors and retailers have passed on those higher costs, which took effect on Feb. 1. The price of fresh milk jumped 5.8 per cent, the fastest month-over-month pace since 1994, Wednesday’s report showed. Statscan noted that prices for all dairy products increased in February.
Your time is valuable. Have the Top Business Headlines newsletter conveniently delivered to your inbox in the morning or evening. Sign up today.


The Federal Reserve will likely hike interest rates on Wednesday, marking the end of the ultra-low rate environment the pandemic ushered in two years ago.
New York (CNN Business) The Federal Reserve will likely hike interest rates on Wednesday, marking the end of the ultra-low rate environment the pandemic ushered in two years ago.
The market expects a quarter-percentage point to be added to the benchmark rate, lifting it above zero. It would be the first rate hike since late 2018.
The Fed hopes that higher rates will curb demand and help bring America's soaring inflation back to a more palatable level and towards the central bank's long-term goal of 2%.
But it's coming at a tricky time.
Even though the US economy has been on a strong recovery path from the pandemic recession, higher energy prices as a result of Russia's war in Ukraine are a new dark cloud on the horizon
Read More


The institution with the most power to address these pressing issues — the Federal Reserve — has been left without its core leadership.
With inflation levels at a 40-year high and the conflict in Ukraine threatening even more economic turmoil, we need an all-hands-on-deck approach to stabilize prices and provide relief to the American people. Yet, the institution with the most power to address these pressing issues — the Federal Reserve — has been left without its core leadership. If we are going to effectively reduce inflation, Senate Republicans must end their partisan obstruction and allow a vote on President Biden Joe BidenUngar-Sargon: Working class hit hardest by inflation Nevada county to consider counting all ballots by hand Biden to announce B in Ukraine military aid: report MORE’s extremely qualified slate of Federal Reserve nominees without delay.
As a former member of President Obama Barack Hussein ObamaGraham goes quiet on Biden's Supreme Court pick The Hill's 12:30 Report - DC readies for Zelensky's plea to Congress Obama to narrate Netflix series 'Our Great National Parks' MORE’s Council of Economic Advisers and chief economist of the U.S. Department of Labor during the Great Recession, I witnessed firsthand the critical role the Federal Reserve plays in helping our economy recover from a crisis. Today, we are at a similar inflection point and need a fully staffed Federal Reserve that can meet this moment.
Prices are rising at the fastest rate since 1982, according to the most recent Consumer Price Index (CPI) Report. The rising cost for gas, rent, and food is causing economic hardship for millions of American families today. And yet these inflationary pressures must be tackled without ending the fragile economic recovery. We still have 3.5 million missing jobs compared to pre-pandemic projections and the labor force participation rate remains below pre-pandemic levels for both men and women. COVID-related supply chain disruptions are ongoing and may get worse due to the Russian invasion of Ukraine and recent lockdowns in Shenzhen and other parts of China.
ADVERTISEMENT
The Federal Reserve must balance their two goals of maximum employment and price stability. Their task is incredibly difficult because of the imprecision of data and the difficulty of forecasting the future. Good monetary policy decisions rely on the input of many informed and dedicated people who bring their unique perspectives to the table when determining the best course of action. The need for everyone’s input is more important than ever as we face these unprecedented challenges. Yet, the Federal Reserve Board of Governors, responsible for leading these efforts, currently only has four of its seven seats confirmed.
Biden nominated to keep Chairman Jerome Powell Jerome PowellRaskin withdraws Fed vice chair nomination Banking chairman sticking with Raskin despite Manchin opposition Russian war, inflation pinch US economy MORE and Lael Brainard, Ph.D., as well as nominating Sarah Bloom Raskin, Lisa Cook, Ph.D., and Philip Jefferson, Ph.D., — although Raskin has since withdrawn her nomination.
They have the skills and judgment needed to fight inflation and maintain economic stability as we continue recovering from the pandemic.
In their current roles at the Federal Reserve, Powell and Brainard have helped steer the U.S. economy through the COVID-19 pandemic, and their renominations will ensure continuity and confidence in Federal Reserve leadership. Jefferson is a world-renowned monetary economist and has studied domestic economic issues for decades. Cook brings a wealth of bipartisan experience, serving in the Treasury Department under President Clinton and George W. Bush and on the Council of Economic Advisers under President Obama.
Together these nominees have decades of proven real-world experience and academic excellence, significant contributions to economic growth and hard-earned resiliency, demonstrating they understand how to make the economy work for working Americans — especially during challenging moments like these. Moreover, Biden’s nominees have broad bipartisan support and the trust of leading economists from across the nation. In a Feb. 8 letter to Senate Leadership and the Senate Banking Committee, I joined 180 of the top economic policymakers and scholars in the country to urge a swift approval of these nominees.
Unfortunately, Senate Republicans on the Banking Committee are not having rigorous debate on the merits of the candidates, or providing valuable oversight to the process. They are playing politics, refusing to show up to work and freezing the confirmation process in its tracks, throwing uncertainty into the markets, and putting the financial wellbeing of hardworking American families at risk. Those chosen to serve in the United States Senate have the constitutional duty to advise and consent on presidential nominees. Regardless of how lawmakers decide to vote on individual appointments, the American people sent them there to vote — not sit on the sidelines. Perhaps more importantly, research shows that countries that give their central banks more independence have lower inflation rates on average. That means that if you play politics with the Federal Reserve and reduce its independence, you should expect higher inflation.
The Federal Reserve needs to balance risks. If we raise interest rates too quickly, you risk slamming the economy back into a recession and leaving too many people out of work. If you raise rates too slowly, you risk further inflation. The Federal Reserve Board makes these choices by bringing a wide range of data and perspectives to the discussion to assess these risks. These are not political decisions. The goals are clear: steer the economy toward maximum employment and stable prices. The problem is that the Federal Reserve has been left without the team of people who lead these discussions and vote on the decision. If we are going to effectively reduce inflation while preventing a recession, we must move forward with a vote on Biden’s extremely qualified slate of Federal Reserve nominees without delay.
Betsey Stevenson, Ph.D., is currently a professor of public policy and economics at the University of Michigan and the author of a widely used “Principles of Economics” textbook. Previously, she served as a member of the Council of Economic Advisers from 2013 to 2015 and as the chief economist of the U.S. Department of Labor from 2010 to 2011.


For the first time since 2018, the U.S. central bank is expected to increase interest rates on Wednesday, a measure to fight rising inflation that's being affected by high gas prices and Russia's war in Ukraine.
1/4
Fed Chairman Jerome Powell told congressional lawmakers earlier this month that he favors an interest rate hike at Wednesday's meeting. Photo by John Angelillo/UPI | License Photo
March 16 (UPI) -- For the first time since 2018, the U.S. central bank is expected to increase interest rates during a policy meeting on Wednesday, a measure to fight rising inflation that's being affected by high gas prices and Russia's war in Ukraine. The Federal Reserve will conclude its policy meeting on Wednesday afternoon, at which time it's expected to announce a quarter-point rate increase. The rate has been near zero since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Fed could also set a forecast for future increases. Advertisement
The primary factors pressing the need for a rate hike include the rising costs of fuel and food. Government figures for February showed that U.S. inflation rose on a 12-month basis to the highest level in 40 years.
The Federal Reserve is also facing fresh uncertainties, including the fighting in Ukraine that's led to a U.S. oil embargo and rising prices at the pump. A new spike in coronavirus cases in China may also cause new supply chain issues.
Fed Chairman Jerome Powell told lawmakers earlier this month that he favors a rate hike at Wednesday's meeting.
"Making appropriate monetary policy in this environment requires a recognition that the economy evolves in unexpected ways," he said. "We will need to be nimble in responding to incoming data and the evolving outlook."
Advertisement
"There's a dark cloud of uncertainty over this meeting, but at the end of the day, they know they're at zero," Jim Caron, chief fixed-income strategist at Morgan Stanley Investment Management, told CNBC.
"The economy is coming into full employment rapidly and inflation is way too high. You add that all up and that means they've got to raise rates. The degree of uncertainty is extraordinary. They told us what they were going to do. They did that to get rid of the uncertainty."
Experts say that Americans can expect to see the impact of the rate hike in their credit card and mortgage payments, but they should see a benefit to other areas like savings accounts, for example.
The Fed's announcement on Wednesday comes a day after Sarah Bloom Raskin withdrew her name from consideration as President Joe Biden's nominee to a seat on the Fed's board of governors.
RELATED Dow finishes fourth straight week with losses
The former deputy treasury secretary made the decision to withdraw her name after Democratic Sen. Joe Manchin of West Virginia, a frequent swing voter, said he'd vote to oppose her nomination, leaving Democrats one vote short of confirmation.
Advertisement


The Federal Reserve is set to raise borrowing costs enough to tame inflation but not too much to send the economy into a recession.
WASHINGTON (AP) -- The Federal Reserve on Wednesday will launch one of the most difficult tasks a central bank can attempt: Raise borrowing costs enough to slow growth and tame high inflation, but not so much as to topple the economy into recession.With a war raging in Europe and price increases at a four-decade high, Fed Chair Jerome Powell will seek to engineer a "soft landing": A gradual slowdown in economic activity that helps curb surging prices, while keeping the job market and economy expanding.Yet many economists worry that with the price of gas and commodities spiking, the additional burden of higher interest rates could choke off growth entirely."You've got to be both lucky and good" to avoid causing a downturn, said Alan Blinder, a Princeton University economist who served as vice chair of the Fed from 1994 to 1996, when the central bank was widely seen as achieving a soft landing.As a first step, the Fed is set to raise borrowing rates several times this year, beginning this week with a quarter-point increase in its benchmark short-term rate. Policymakers will also discuss when and how fast to shrink the Fed's $9 trillion in bond holdings, a step that would also have the effect of tightening credit for consumers and businesses.Such moves mark a sharp turn away from the Fed's ultra-low-rate policies, which it enacted when the pandemic recession erupted two years ago. By pinning its key rate near zero for two years and buying trillions in bonds, the Fed has kept borrowing costs at historically low levels and helped boost stock prices.The Fed, by its own admission, underestimated the breadth and persistence of high inflation after the pandemic struck. Many economists say the central bank made its task riskier by waiting too long to begin raising rates.The average 30-year fixed mortgage rate, which reached a record low of 2.65% in January 2021, has jumped to 3.85% in the past three months, as Powell has signaled the Fed's intentions and inflation has spiraled higher.By raising short-term rates, the Fed hopes to make it costlier to buy homes and cars and to boost credit card rates and borrowing costs for businesses. The resulting pullback in spending should, in turn, slow inflation, Powell told Congress two weeks ago. Strong consumer spending, fueled by stimulus checks and steady hiring and pay raises, has collided with supply shortfalls to raise inflation to 7.9%, the highest rate since 1982."People will spend less, and what we hope to achieve is bringing the economy to a level where demand and supply are in sync," Powell said at a Senate Banking Committee hearing.If the Fed succeeds, he said, the economy should keep growing, and unemployment, over time, should stay low - it's now 3.8% - or fall further."I think it's more likely than not that we can achieve what we call a soft landing," Powell told a House panel a day before his Senate testimony.Yet the Fed faces a dizzying array of uncertainties that will make its task particularly challenging. The economy is still working through shortages of labor and parts stemming from the disruptions of the pandemic. And now prices are rising further for oil, gas, wheat, and other commodities because of Russia's war against Ukraine.The clearest soft landing was achieved in 1994 and 1995, when the Fed under Chairman Alan Greenspan raised its benchmark rate from 3% to 6% as the economy was rebounding after a brief recession. Inflation, which wasn't a problem then, declined further. And unemployment leveled off at about 5.5% before resuming its decline two years later.Blinder calculates that the Fed also engineered soft landings in 1965 and 1983. But he worries that this time, the odds are stacked against the Fed and that its rate hikes may end up causing an economic setback."It's just so hard in this environment," he said. "You have to have a world in which nothing comes to knock over the apple cart. And for Jay Powell and the Fed, the whole world is just apple cart after apple cart getting knocked over."One of those apple carts is the sharp rise in gas prices since the invasion, up 65 cents to $4.33 a gallon, on average, nationwide. The increase will send inflation higher, while probably also slowing growth - two conflicting trends that are difficult for the Fed to manage simultaneously.Last week, Goldman Sachs cut its growth forecast for this year to 2.9%, down from a previous estimate of 3.1%. Others foresee growth decelerating to 2%, down from 5.7% last year.The economy's steady expansion does provide some cushion against higher rates and more expensive gas. Consumers are spending at a healthy pace, and employers keep rapidly hiring. There are still 11.3 million job openings, far outnumbering the unemployed.In 1998, the late MIT economist Rudiger Dornbusch wrote that economic expansions didn't die of "natural causes." Rather, he said, "they were all murdered by the Fed over the issue of inflation." He meant that the Fed raised rates too much out of fear of inflation and failed to achieve a soft landing.Yet many economists say that view is outdated and refers mostly to Fed policies from the 1950s through early 1980s. The Fed now operates differently. It communicates its plans more clearly with the public. And it pays closer attention to factors such as inflation expectations, which measure where consumers, businesses and investors see inflation heading.Such measures are important because if people think inflation will head higher, they will demand bigger paychecks. Companies, in turn, will raise prices further to offset their higher labor costs.Inflation expectations, particularly in the short-term, have been rising steadily, though longer-term measures suggest that people still expect inflation to return closer to the Fed's 2% annual target over time.Emi Nakamura, an economics professor at the University of California, Berkeley, noted that in the 1970s, even as inflation soared, it was still a matter of debate among economists whether the Fed's rate policies could truly control inflation.Yet if the Fed keeps raising rates for another year or two, as many economists expect, it could eventually lift them high enough that consumers and business reduce spending and throw the economy into reverse. Unemployment would rise and a downturn could begin.Stephen Stanley, an economist at Amherst Pierpont, suggested, though, that the Fed won't reach that possibility until next year or later."Let's at least get a few rate hikes under our belt before we start worrying about that," he said. "We have some distance to go before that becomes a realistic worry."


Stock futures jumped Wednesday morning as traders awaited the Federal Reserve's latest monetary policy decision and updated economic outlook later in the day.
Stock futures jumped Wednesday morning as traders awaited the Federal Reserve's latest monetary policy decision and updated economic projections later in the day. More positive developments on the outlook for Russia-Ukraine talks also helped boost U.S. and global equities.
Contracts on the S&P 500, Dow and Nasdaq were each higher by more than 1% in pre-market trading. These moves built on gains from Tuesday, when the S&P 500 closed higher by more than 2% to shake off some of the volatility recently gripping U.S. equities. Treasury yields steadied after moving sharply higher, and the 10-year yield hovered above 2.1% for its highest level since 2019.
At least one Kremlin official reportedly struck an upbeat tone on discussions with Ukraine early Wednesday, helping provide a boost to stocks recently roiled by geopolitical turmoil. Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov suggested a proposal to have Ukraine become a neutral country while keeping its armed forces "could be viewed as a certain kind of compromise," Bloomberg reported Wednesday.
Energy prices unwound more recent gains, and West Texas intermediate (CL=F) crude oil futures briefly dipped below $95 per barrel to fall further into a bear market. Earlier this week, U.S. crude oil first entered bear market territory, with prices sliding more than 20% from recent closing highs set just a week ago. Brent crude, the international standard, hovered below $100 per barrel.
Investors this week have been gearing up to receive the Federal Reserve's latest monetary policy decision, which is likely to show the first of multiple interest rate hikes this year. Currently, the benchmark interest rate has been kept near zero since mid-2020, with the central bank using low rates and a series of other monetary policy tools to keep financial conditions running smoothly amid the pandemic. The Fed last raised interest rates in 2018.
Already, Fed Chair Jerome Powell told Congress in recent weeks that he would back a 25 basis point interest rate hike at the Fed's March meeting. Such an increase would be in-line with the Fed's typical hike size per meeting over the past two decades, and would begin the process of tightening financial conditions to gradually bring down demand and inflation. And in opting against a more aggressive 50 basis point rate hike — which some market participants had called for at the beginning of the year — the Fed would also likely avoid delivering a shock to markets already reeling from Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
Story continues
And importantly, in addition to offering a decision on raising rates, the Fed will also release an updated Summary of Economic Projections, or "dot plot," showing what central bank officials are thinking for where interest rates and growth in the economy may be headed in the near-term. And to that end, many pundits expect to see the Fed upgrade its outlooks on inflation and the labor market this year.
The core Personal Consumption Expenditures (PCE) — or the Fed's preferred inflation gauge excluding volatile food and energy prices — last rose at a 6.1% annual rate in January. And since then, more recent prints on consumer and producer price inflation have pointed to even steeper run-up in prices.
"The dot plot should increase given all the news that we've had between December and today," Michael Kushma, Morgan Stanley Investment Management chief investment officer, told Yahoo Finance Live on Tuesday. "We've got a strong labor market, higher than expected inflation. Oil prices, energy prices, commodity prices are much higher now then they were back then. All of it suggests that the Fed needs to get going, and that they need to up the dot plot. So I think they'll talk about the mean, maybe five rate hikes in 2022, and a couple more in 2023."
—
7:08 a.m. ET. Wednesday: Stock futures jump
Here's where markets were trading Wednesday morning:
S&P 500 futures ( ES=F ) : +51.5 points (+1.21%) to 4,313.50
Dow futures ( YM=F ) : +358.00 points (+1.07%) to 33,890.00
Nasdaq futures ( NQ=F ): +238.00 points (+1.77%) to 13,689.75
Crude ( CL=F ) : -$0.38 (-0.39%) to $96.06 a barrel
Gold ( GC=F ) : -$6.10 (-0.32%) to $1,923.60 per ounce
10-year Treasury (^TNX): +0.2 bps to yield 2.162%
—
6:13 p.m. ET Tuesday: Stock futures mixed, Dow futures gain 250+ points
Here's where stocks were trading Monday morning:
S&P 500 futures ( ES=F ) : -3.5 points (-0.08%) to 4,258.50
Dow futures ( YM=F ) : -22 points (-0.07%) to 33,510.00
Nasdaq futures (NQ=F): -1.5 points (-0.01%) to 13,450.25
NEW YORK, NEW YORK - MARCH 11: Traders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) on March 11, 2022 in New York City. The Dow Jones Industrial Average was up over 200 points in morning trading on the last day of a volatile week for global markets. (Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images)
—
Emily McCormick is a reporter for Yahoo Finance. Follow her on Twitter
Read the latest financial and business news from Yahoo Finance
Follow Yahoo Finance on Twitter, Instagram, YouTube, Facebook, Flipboard, and LinkedIn


Stock futures jumped Wednesday morning as traders awaited the Federal Reserve's latest monetary policy decision and updated economic outlook later in the day.
Stock futures jumped Wednesday morning as traders awaited the Federal Reserve's latest monetary policy decision and updated economic projections later in the day. More positive developments on the outlook for Russia-Ukraine talks also helped boost U.S. and global equities.
Contracts on the S&P 500, Dow and Nasdaq were each higher by more than 1% in pre-market trading. These moves built on gains from Tuesday, when the S&P 500 closed higher by more than 2% to shake off some of the volatility recently gripping U.S. equities. Treasury yields steadied after moving sharply higher, and the 10-year yield hovered above 2.1% for its highest level since 2019.
At least one Kremlin official reportedly struck an upbeat tone on discussions with Ukraine early Wednesday, helping provide a boost to stocks recently roiled by geopolitical turmoil. Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov suggested a proposal to have Ukraine become a neutral country while keeping its armed forces "could be viewed as a certain kind of compromise," Bloomberg reported Wednesday.
Energy prices unwound more recent gains, and West Texas intermediate (CL=F) crude oil futures briefly dipped below $95 per barrel to fall further into a bear market. Earlier this week, U.S. crude oil first entered bear market territory, with prices sliding more than 20% from recent closing highs set just a week ago. Brent crude, the international standard, hovered below $100 per barrel.
Investors this week have been gearing up to receive the Federal Reserve's latest monetary policy decision, which is likely to show the first of multiple interest rate hikes this year. Currently, the benchmark interest rate has been kept near zero since mid-2020, with the central bank using low rates and a series of other monetary policy tools to keep financial conditions running smoothly amid the pandemic. The Fed last raised interest rates in 2018.
Already, Fed Chair Jerome Powell told Congress in recent weeks that he would back a 25 basis point interest rate hike at the Fed's March meeting. Such an increase would be in-line with the Fed's typical hike size per meeting over the past two decades, and would begin the process of tightening financial conditions to gradually bring down demand and inflation. And in opting against a more aggressive 50 basis point rate hike — which some market participants had called for at the beginning of the year — the Fed would also likely avoid delivering a shock to markets already reeling from Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
Story continues
And importantly, in addition to offering a decision on raising rates, the Fed will also release an updated Summary of Economic Projections, or "dot plot," showing what central bank officials are thinking for where interest rates and growth in the economy may be headed in the near-term. And to that end, many pundits expect to see the Fed upgrade its outlooks on inflation and the labor market this year.
The core Personal Consumption Expenditures (PCE) — or the Fed's preferred inflation gauge excluding volatile food and energy prices — last rose at a 6.1% annual rate in January. And since then, more recent prints on consumer and producer price inflation have pointed to even steeper run-up in prices.
"The dot plot should increase given all the news that we've had between December and today," Michael Kushma, Morgan Stanley Investment Management chief investment officer, told Yahoo Finance Live on Tuesday. "We've got a strong labor market, higher than expected inflation. Oil prices, energy prices, commodity prices are much higher now then they were back then. All of it suggests that the Fed needs to get going, and that they need to up the dot plot. So I think they'll talk about the mean, maybe five rate hikes in 2022, and a couple more in 2023."
—
7:08 a.m. ET. Wednesday: Stock futures jump
Here's where markets were trading Wednesday morning:
S&P 500 futures ( ES=F ) : +51.5 points (+1.21%) to 4,313.50
Dow futures ( YM=F ) : +358.00 points (+1.07%) to 33,890.00
Nasdaq futures ( NQ=F ): +238.00 points (+1.77%) to 13,689.75
Crude ( CL=F ) : -$0.38 (-0.39%) to $96.06 a barrel
Gold ( GC=F ) : -$6.10 (-0.32%) to $1,923.60 per ounce
10-year Treasury (^TNX): +0.2 bps to yield 2.162%
—
6:13 p.m. ET Tuesday: Stock futures mixed, Dow futures gain 250+ points
Here's where stocks were trading Monday morning:
S&P 500 futures ( ES=F ) : -3.5 points (-0.08%) to 4,258.50
Dow futures ( YM=F ) : -22 points (-0.07%) to 33,510.00
Nasdaq futures (NQ=F): -1.5 points (-0.01%) to 13,450.25
NEW YORK, NEW YORK - MARCH 11: Traders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) on March 11, 2022 in New York City. The Dow Jones Industrial Average was up over 200 points in morning trading on the last day of a volatile week for global markets. (Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images)
—
Emily McCormick is a reporter for Yahoo Finance. Follow her on Twitter
Read the latest financial and business news from Yahoo Finance
Follow Yahoo Finance on Twitter, Instagram, YouTube, Facebook, Flipboard, and LinkedIn


U.S. stock futures on Wednesday pointed to an extension of the previous session's rally, as traders wait for the Federal Reserve's monetary policy decision and react to China's statement of support for its markets.
Benzinga
Tesla Inc. (NASDAQ: TSLA) CEO Elon Musk posted in a Twitter thread on Monday advising followers to own “physical things” when inflation is high. In the tweet, Musk said “As a general principle, for those looking for advice from this thread, it is generally better to own physical things like a home or stock in companies you think make good products, than dollars when inflation is high. I still own & won’t sell my Bitcoin, Ethereum or Doge fwiw.” The biggest takeaway for some followers seems to ha


The 10-year Treasury yield topped 2.16% on Wednesday morning, with the Federal Reserve expected to announce an interest rate hike in the afternoon.
The 10-year Treasury yield topped 2.16% on Wednesday morning, with the Federal Reserve expected to announce an interest rate hike in the afternoon. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note climbed less than a basis to 2.1616% at 5:40 a.m. ET. The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond was flat at 2.4948%. Yields move inversely to prices and 1 basis point is equal to 0.01%.
Treasurys
The 10-year rate has surged since the beginning of the week, ahead of the Fed's latest policy decision. The Fed is expected announce that it will raise interest rates by a quarter point on Wednesday, the first hike since 2018. Watchers also anticipate that the Fed will offer a new quarterly forecast that could indicate five or six more hikes this year. The central bank is set to announce its decision and economic projections after its two-day meeting wraps up at 2 p.m. on Wednesday, with Fed Chairman Jerome Powell then due to give a briefing. ING strategists said in a note on Wednesday that they expected the Fed to implement six quarter percentage point rate hikes in 2022 and two more in 2023.
They said it was important to note the role that central banks had in influencing long-dated interest rates. "In all likelihood, a more hawkish Fed, for instance moving its dot plot to close to the number of hikes we're expecting in this cycle, would push rates higher," the strategists said. Russia's invasion of Ukraine also remains in focus for investors, with negotiations between officials set to continue on Wednesday. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has said securing a peace agreement with Russia is beginning to "sound more realistic." Russia faces the possibility that it could default on its debt for the first time in decades, with two payments totaling $117 million due on Wednesday. In terms of other U.S. economic data releases due out on Wednesday, February's retail sales figures are set to be released at 8:30 a.m. ET, along with last month's import and export prices. The National Association of Home Builders' March housing market index is then due out at 10 a.m. ET. An auction is scheduled to be held on Wednesday for $35 billion of 119-day bills.


One of the most closely watched parts of the Federal Reserve meeting set to conclude Wednesday is what central bank forecasts will say about the inflation outlook.
Having been blindsided by surging inflation pressures, one of the most closely watched parts of the Federal Reserve meeting set to conclude Wednesday is what central bank forecasts will say about the inflation outlook.
The Federal Open Market Committee meeting will almost certainly result in an increase in what is now a near zero target rate range, with a move up by a quarter percentage point. The Fed may also tip its hand on how it will start shrinking its $9 trillion dollar balance sheet later this year.


Markets await the Federal Reserve’s afternoon policy announcement
World stocks recovered ground on Wednesday as markets watched for signs of light in the Ukraine conflict, while Treasury yields hit their highest since mid-2019 in anticipation of the first U.S. interest rate hike in three years.
Chinese stimulus hopes also boosted stocks.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said on Wednesday peace talks between Russia and Ukraine were sounding more realistic but more time was needed, as Russian air strikes killed five people in the capital Kyiv and the refugee tally from Moscow’s invasion reached 3 million.
Russia’s foreign minister Sergei Lavrov also said some formulations of agreements with Ukraine were close to being agreed.
Western governments have slapped tough sanctions on Russia for the invasion, which Moscow calls a “special operation.”
“These sanctions probably are working, hopefully that will put some pressure on both sides to get around the table and negotiate,” Gregory Perdon, co-chief investment officer at Arbuthnot Latham, said. He added that the invasion could dampen the pace of Fed rate hikes.
“I don’t see this as a flash in the pan military conflict, it has resulted in a big shock to the oil market.”
Investors are expecting the U.S. Federal Reserve to raise interest rates by at least 25 basis points amid surging prices later on Wednesday. Traders will also be closely watching the Fed for details on how it plans to end its bond-buying program.
The MSCI world equity index rose 0.87%, moving away from one-year lows hit in the previous session. S&P futures gained 0.79% after U.S. stocks enjoyed a relief rally overnight on Wall Street, driven by hopes of a resolution in Ukraine.
The S&P 500 gained 2.14%, the Nasdaq Composite jumped 2.92% and the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 1.82%.
European stocks gained 2.2% and MSCI’s broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan jumped 4.2% after China’s Vice Premier Liu He said Beijing will roll out more measures to boost the Chinese economy, as well as favorable policy steps for capital markets.
Chinese stocks were up 4.2%.
On Wednesday, Chinese health authorities reported a slight drop in new COVID-19 cases compared with a day earlier, although major Chinese cities continue to grapple with controlling the spread of the virus.
U.S. 10-year Treasury yields rose to 2.204% on the Fed rate hike hopes, their highest since June 2019. The five-year yield rose to 2.149%, its highest since May 2019.
Germany’s 10-year government bond yield rose to its highest since Nov. 2018 at 0.387%.
Russia has $117.2 million in interest payments due on two dollar-denominated eurobonds on Wednesday. Its finance ministry has said it will make the payments in rubles if sanctions prevent it from paying in dollars - a move markets would view as a default.
The U.S. dollar was down 0.2% against a basket of peers, trading at 98.708, and steady versus the yen at 118.30 albeit close to the previous session’s five-year high.
Japan reported a wider-than-expected trade deficit in February as an energy-driven surge in import costs caused by massive supply constraints added to vulnerabilities for the world’s third-largest economy.
The euro gained 0.33% to $1.0989.
Markets are currently juggling geopolitical risks, macro-economic risks, price risks and central bank reactions, Commerzbank analysts said.
“If one of the balls is ignored it is possible that they all go everywhere, in the shape of prices going berserk.”
Oil prices have been volatile since the Ukraine invasion.
Global benchmark Brent crude rose 2.38% to $102.22 per barrel, and U.S. crude added 1.62% to $98.08.
Spot gold was little changed at $1,918.95 per ounce.
Carolyn Cohn and Andrew Galbraith/Reuters
Be smart with your money. Get the latest investing insights delivered right to your inbox three times a week, with the Globe Investor newsletter. Sign up today.


Here’s the Federal Reserve’s rationale, and how it might trickle through the economy to affect you.
Prices for groceries, couches and rent are all climbing rapidly, and Federal Reserve officials have been warily eyeing that trend. On Wednesday, they are expected to take their biggest step yet toward counteracting it.
Central bank officials — who have been signaling for months that they are preparing to pull back economic support — are expected to raise their policy interest rate by a quarter percentage point. That small change will carry with it a major signal. Policymakers are telling markets and the public that they have fully pivoted to inflation-fighting mode and will do what is necessary to make sure price gains do not remain hot for months and years to come.
The Fed will release its decision at 2 p.m., and Jerome H. Powell, the central bank’s chair, will hold a news conference at 2:30 p.m.
The Fed is acting at a tense moment for many consumers, when people are worrying about rising day-to-day expenses and trying to think through what higher interest rates could mean for their finances. Here’s a rundown of what is happening, why it is happening and what it is likely to mean for markets and the economy.


European stocks rose to near two-week highs on Wednesday, driven by China's promise to roll out more economic stimulus, while investors awaited the U.S. Federal Reserve's interest rate decision. The pan-European STOXX 600 index rose 2.1% by 0818 GMT, hitting its highest since March 3.
European stocks rose to near two-week highs on Wednesday, driven by China's promise to roll out more economic stimulus, while investors awaited the U.S. Federal Reserve's interest rate decision.
The pan-European STOXX 600 index rose 2.1% by 0818 GMT, hitting its highest since March 3. Battered stock markets in China and Hong Kong surged after Vice Premier Liu He said Beijing will roll out more measures to boost the Chinese economy as well as favourable policy steps for capital markets.
Dutch tech investor Prosus, which has stake in China's Tencent, bounced 17% after hitting all-time lows in the previous session. The stock led the wider technology index up nearly 4%. Other China-exposed sectors such as miners and autos were up between 2.5% and 2.8%.
German carmaker BMW gained 1.5% despite lowering its profit margin expectations for its automotive segment for 2022 due to the war in Ukraine. Sweden-based private equity fund EQT jumped 13.8% after it said it had agreed to buy investment firm Baring Private Equity Asia (BPEA) in a deal worth 6.8 billion euros ($7.5 billion).
(This story has not been edited by Devdiscourse staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)


London's FTSE 100 rose on Wednesday, aided by gains in financial and mining stocks, while investors across the globe awaited the U.S. Federal Reserve's policy decision due later in the day.
London's FTSE 100 rose on Wednesday, aided by gains in financial and mining stocks, while investors across the globe awaited the U.S. Federal Reserve's policy decision due later in the day. The blue-chip FTSE 100 climbed 1.2% in early trade, with banks and base metal miners leading the gains, while the domestically focused mid-cap index advanced 1.6%.
Base metal miners jumped 2.6% after hitting their lowest in nearly three weeks in the prior session, as metal prices rose. The Fed is expected to raise rates for the first time in three years later on Wednesday and give guidance on future tightening. Investors are expecting the central bank to raise rates by at least 25 basis points amid rising prices.
Among individual stocks, Avast fell 8.4% to the bottom of the FTSE 100 after Britain's anti-trust regulator launched an in-depth probe into U.S. cybersecurity firm NortonLifeLock Inc's $8.6 billion purchase of the company, saying the deal could harm competition.
(This story has not been edited by Devdiscourse staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)


