European shares rose on Wednesday, with real estate and technology sectors advancing as U.S. inflation data boosted hopes of imminent Federal Reserve rate cuts. The pan-European STOXX 600 saw a significant 1.2% rise. European automakers faced declines over fears of Chinese retaliation following EU tariffs on Chinese EVs.
European shares advanced on Wednesday, with rate-sensitive sectors like real-estate jumping after a cool U.S. inflation reading propped up hopes that the Federal Reserve could kick-off its policy easing cycle soon.
The pan-European STOXX 600 closed 1.2% higher after falling for the last three sessions, its biggest single-day percentage jump since January. Global sentiment remained upbeat after data showed U.S. consumer prices were unexpectedly unchanged in May, while underlying inflation pressures abated last month.
"We anticipated the headline inflation number to behave well this time around ... what we are particularly encouraged about is the core number," said Frederique Carrier, head of investment strategy for RBC Wealth Management in the British Isles and Asia. "We are encouraged by the earnings season in the U.S. and we know that interest rates will be coming down."
Traders boosted bets that the Fed will cut interest rates by September following the data. Rate-sensitive real estate led gains amongst major STOXX 600 sectors with a 2.7% jump, while technology added 2.4%.
European automakers such Volkswagen and BMW slipped around 1% each on fears of Chinese retaliation after the European Commission said it would impose duties on imported Chinese electric vehicles. Luxury German manufacturer Porsche Holding dropped 7.2% as its shares traded ex-dividend.
European equities hit record highs last week after the European Central Bank's (ECB) first rate cut in five years but have since pulled back due to political tremors domestically. France's CAC 40 ended 1% higher after logging sharp declines in the last two sessions, when French President Emmanuel Macron called for snap legislative election.
Amongst other data points, German inflation rose in May, confirming a prior estimate, while Britain's gross domestic product was flat in April after a strong start to 2024. Later in the day, the Fed is expected to leave interest rates unchanged, with new economic projections from policymakers likely to show fewer rate cuts this year than previously anticipated.
Back in Europe, ECB vice-president Luis de Guindos said the central bank must move "very slowly" in reducing interest rates because there is huge uncertainty over the inflation outlook. Among individual stocks, Umicore slumped 7.5% after the Belgian metal recycling group lowered its 2024 profit forecast.
Rentokil Initial jumped 13.7% after activist investor Nelson Peltz's Trian Fund Management amassed a significant stake in the British pest-control firm. Finland's Konecranes jumped 7.6% after the engineering group said it had raised its profitability outlook for the full year.
(This story has not been edited by Devdiscourse staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)


London stocks saw a significant rebound on Wednesday following potential interest rate cuts indicated by cooling U.S. inflation data and a slowing UK economy. The blue-chip FTSE 100 and mid-cap FTSE 250 indices rose, driven by gains from Rentokil Initial. Investors are now focused on upcoming Federal Reserve decisions.
London stocks rebounded on Wednesday on revived hopes of interest rate cuts in the near future after data showed cooling inflation in the U.S. and a slowing economy in Britain, while Rentokil Initial further added to the gains.
The blue-chip FTSE 100 closed 0.8% higher in its best day in over a month, while the mid-cap FTSE 250 was up 1.1%, snapping a three session losing streak. A key U.S. government report showed consumer prices did not rise at all in May, with traders adding to bets of an interest rate cut in September by the Federal Reserve.
The benchmark U.S. S&P 500 rose over 1%, while the tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite Index hit a record high after the data. Meanwhile, British data showed that economic output was flat in April and the rebound in the economy came to a halt.
"Signs that the UK economy's recovery has stalled added to expectations that the BoE could cut interest rates sooner. The prospect of the Fed also cutting sooner is helping global sentiment," said Fiona Cincotta, senior market analyst at City Index. In the London market, the industrial support sector gained 3.7%, leading a broader rally. Rentokil Initial surged 13.7% to top the FTSE 100, after Bloomberg News reported that Nelson Peltz's Trian Fund Management has amassed a significant stake in the pest-control firm.
Investors are now bracing for the Federal Reserve's next monetary policy decision, due later in the day. Cincotta also pointed that if there was "an increasing sense" that the BoE and the Fed were moving close to their rate cutting cycle, it could help the FTSE 100 over the crucial 8,200 level, depending on "what we hear from the Fed this evening."
In corporate news, life insurer Legal & General lost 5.5% after planning a 200 million pound ($254.9 million) share buyback and a merger of its investment units. Molten Ventures was the top gainer on the mid-cap index, with a 19.1% jump, after the venture capital firm reported its final-year results.
(This story has not been edited by Devdiscourse staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)


After a cooler-than-expected inflation reading on consumer price increases in May, investors are turning focus to the Federal Reserve decision at 2 p.m. ET.
US stocks roared on Wednesday after a fresh reading on inflation showed consumer prices increased less than expected in May. The latest snapshot of inflation comes hours before a highly anticipated Federal Reserve meeting in the afternoon will provide the latest signal on the path of interest rates.
The S&P 500 (^GSPC) built on a 27th record close of the year, rising more than 1.2%. The tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite (^IXIC) rose nearly 1.8%, also adding to a record close from the prior day. The Dow Jones Industrial Average (^DJI) also popped about 0.5%.
The Consumer Price Index (CPI) remained flat over the previous month and rose 3.3% over the prior year in May — a deceleration from April's 0.3% month-over-month increase and 3.4% annual gain in prices. Both measures beat economist expectations. On a "core" basis, which strips out the more volatile costs of food and gas, prices in May climbed 0.2% over the prior month and 3.4% over last year — cooler than April's data. Both measures also came in better than economist estimates.
This shifted market expectations for Fed rate cuts this year. Following the data's release, markets were pricing in a roughly 69% chance the Federal Reserve begins to cut rates by its September meeting, according to data from the CME FedWatch Tool. That's up from about a 53% chance the day prior.
The 10-Year Treasury yield (^TNX) fell about 14 basis points to 4.26%, its lowest level since April 1. Subsequently, interest rate-sensitive areas of the market soared. The small-cap Russell 2000 (^RUT) index rallied more than 3.1%.
Read more: How does the labor market affect inflation?
But all that could shift later this afternoon. The Fed's decision is all but certain — the central bank is expected to keep rates at their current 23-year-high levels. Investors will be more closely watching the release of the Fed's updated economic projections in its "dot plot" — specifically, how many rate cuts it projects for the rest of the year.
Last we heard, in March, it was three. Policymakers are almost certain to slash that, thanks in part to the aforementioned inflation's stickiness to start this year. Those projections, along with what Fed Chair Jerome Powell says in his press conference, could be the last market-moving events in an extraordinarily busy day.


With monetary policy at the Bank of Canada and U.S. Federal Reserve on track to diverge, experts say it could set the Canadian dollar up for volatility down the road.
With monetary policy at the Bank of Canada and U.S. Federal Reserve on track to diverge, experts say it could set the Canadian dollar up for volatility down the road.
With monetary policy at the Bank of Canada and U.S. Federal Reserve on track to diverge, experts say it could set the Canadian dollar up for volatility down the road.
If the Bank of Canada’s rate falls too far below the Fed’s, it could negatively affect the loonie, said Allan Small, senior investment adviser at IA Private Wealth. This would make imports from the U.S. — Canada's biggest trading partner — more expensive and put upward pressure on inflation, though he added this isn’t something that happens overnight.
“If the Bank of Canada cuts a few times and the Fed stands pat, I don't think that will be an issue,” he said.
But if the Bank of Canada keeps cutting and the Fed holds on past the first quarter of next year, “then we could start to see significant divergence.”
The Fed is widely expected to hold its key interest rate steady on Wednesday as the country’s economy has been more resilient than expected in the face of higher borrowing costs and inflation.
It’s a different story in Canada, where last week, the Bank of Canada announced its first interest rate cut in more than four years after a steep hiking cycle aimed at tamping down inflation.
At a June 5 press conference discussing the rate cut, governor Tiff Macklem said the central bank has more confidence that inflation is heading toward its two per cent target.
He acknowledged there are limits to how far the Bank of Canada can diverge from the U.S. in terms of rate policy, but he said “we’re not close to those limits.”
The Bank of Canada cut its key lending rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 4.75 per cent while the U.S. federal funds rate currently sits at 5.25 per cent to 5.50 per cent.
Canada’s economy is more sensitive to interest rates, in large part because Canadians have five-year mortgage terms, while in the U.S., terms are 30 years, said Brianne Gardner, senior wealth manager of Velocity Investment Partners at Raymond James Ltd.
This means far more Canadian homeowners have had to renew their mortgages during this period of higher rates, which has led consumers to rein in their spending.
“It’s really a tale of two economies,” said Small.
The Canadian market also depends more on commodities like oil, said Small, whereas tech companies make up a large portion of financial markets in the U.S. — and major tech names have been leading a recent rally in equities over optimism about artificial intelligence.
“That has gone a long way to produce the earnings, to produce the growth, and to give the United States a definite advantage,” said Small.
It’s not uncommon for the overnight rates between the two countries to diverge somewhat, said Gardner, but it’s not usually a significant difference.
Historically, a difference of 100 basis points, or one percentage point, has been a “comfort zone,” she said.
“If there is that window, I would say we're still comfortable with that. If it starts to get a little bit outside that, I think we might reassess.”
“I think there’s more room for divergence than most people think,” said Gardner.
For a period in the 1990s, the difference between the two rates was 250 basis points, which is “quite a large spread,” said Gardner.
During that period, however, strength in energy prices helped buoy the loonie, said Gardner.
“If energy prices continue to rise, that could be a buffer for the Canadian dollar.”
At the beginning of 2024, market watchers thought the Fed could cut its key rate six times throughout the year, even though the central bank itself was projecting three cuts. Those expectations have been significantly pared back as economic data rolled in over the past six months.
Bets are now leaning toward a first cut in September in the U.S., said Gardner, but the economic data could change that.
Small says depending on how the U.S. economy holds up as the year progresses, it’s possible the Fed won’t cut at all until 2025.
However, investors hoping for lower rates got a boost of optimism Wednesday morning as they waited for the central bank's decision later in the day. A new report showed consumer price inflation in May eased for the second straight month, coming in at 3.3 per cent compared with what economists expected, which was 3.4 per cent.
Macklem said last week that the Bank of Canada is taking its interest rate decisions “one meeting at a time.”
"If inflation continues to ease, and our confidence that inflation is headed sustainably to the two per cent target continues to increase, it is reasonable to expect further cuts to our policy interest rate," he said.
“The Bank of Canada says that they have a lot of room to diverge,” said Small, but he added it’s not clear how much room that actually is.
“At some point, if the U.S. does not start cutting ... it could present some difficulty, for sure.”
— With files from The Associated Press
This report by The Canadian Press was first published June 12, 2024.
Rosa Saba, The Canadian Press


After a cooler-than-expected inflation reading on consumer price increases in May, investors are turning focus to the Federal Reserve decision at 2 p.m. ET.
US stocks popped on Wednesday after a fresh reading on inflation showed consumer prices increased less than expected in May. The latest snapshot of inflation comes hours before a highly anticipated Federal Reserve meeting in the afternoon will provide the latest signal on the path of interest rates.
The S&P 500 (^GSPC) built on a 27th record close of the year, rising more than 0.8%. The tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite (^IXIC) rose nearly 0.9%, also adding to a record close from the prior day. The Dow Jones Industrial Average (^DJI) also popped about 0.9%.
The Consumer Price Index (CPI) remained flat over the previous month and rose 3.3% over the prior year in May — a deceleration from April's 0.3% month-over-month increase and 3.4% annual gain in prices. Both measures beat economist expectations. On a "core" basis, which strips out the more volatile costs of food and gas, prices in May climbed 0.2% over the prior month and 3.4% over last year — cooler than April's data. Both measures also came in better than economist estimates.
This shifted market expectations for Fed rate cuts this year. Following the data's release, markets were pricing in a roughly 69% chance the Federal Reserve begins to cut rates by its September meeting, according to data from the CME FedWatch Tool. That's up from about a 53% chance the day prior.
Subsequently, interest rate-sensitive areas of the market soared. Real Estate (XLRE) led the eleven sectors, rising more than 2%.
Read more: How does the labor market affect inflation?
But all that could shift later this afternoon. The Fed's decision is all but certain — the central bank is expected to keep rates at their current 23-year-high levels. Investors will be more closely watching the release of the Fed's updated economic projections in its "dot plot" — specifically, how many rate cuts it projects for the rest of the year.
Last we heard, in March, it was three. Policymakers are almost certain to slash that, thanks in part to the aforementioned inflation's stickiness to start this year. Those projections, along with what Fed Chair Jerome Powell says in his press conference, could be the last market-moving events in an extraordinarily busy day.


A new wave of political pressure greeted Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell and his colleagues as they gathered in Washington this week to discuss the path of interest rates.
A new wave of political pressure greeted Fed Chair Jerome Powell as he and his colleagues gathered in Washington this week to discuss the direction of interest rates, and a cooler-than-expected inflation reading Wednesday amplified that scrutiny.
From the left, the immediate reaction from Sen. Martin Heinrich, the chair of Congress's Joint Economic Committee, was to proclaim "it’s time" for the Fed to lower rates "before it causes irreparable harm to the US economy."
The sentiment was echoed earlier in the week in the form of two new letters from other liberal lawmakers pushing in the same direction. One letter, led by Sen. Elizabeth Warren, concluded by telling the central banker, "You have kept interest rates too high for too long."
The release of the Consumer Price Index (CPI) for May showed prices remained flat over April and rose 3.3% over the prior year. It was good news for price-weary consumers and could ease the economic pressure on the central bank to keep interest rates high.
The pressure from the left has also been matched in recent days by commentary from the right.
GOP presidential candidate Donald Trump again raised the prospect of putting Powell out of a job late last week. "I know a lot about firing people," the former president teased in an interview with a TV station in Arizona.
But the political noise from both sides may have a limited impact, at least for this week.
Powell and his colleagues remain widely expected to keep rates steady for now and then revisit the issue in July. That's partly because of the limited leverage these politicians hold at the moment but also in large part by Powell's own design.
The central banker has long set "data driven" benchmarks (and tried to adhere closely to them) to avoid the fate of predecessors seen as too susceptible to changing political winds.
Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell looks on during a session of the Financial Stability Oversight Council at the Treasury Department on May 10. (ANDREW CABALLERO-REYNOLDS/AFP via Getty Images) (ANDREW CABALLERO-REYNOLDS via Getty Images)
Desmond Lachman describes the overall strategy from Powell as essentially backing oneself into a corner — intentionally.
"Given the way he's set this thing up, the bar is going to be very high for him now to cut interest rates before the election," said Lachman, a former managing director at Salomon Smith Barney currently at the American Enterprise Institute.
"That's really the box that he's put himself into," Lachman added.
There's also little these critics can do at the moment. Trump has been clear that if he wins, Powell will be out of a job no matter what he does, but the question is whether Trump would take the destabilizing step of firing him or simply letting his term expire.
Story continues
Mark Spindel, the chief investment officer of Potomac River Capital and a Fed historian, notes that both President Joe Biden and Powell would welcome the declaration of an economic soft landing, but Powell is fully committed to waiting for a consensus on the data.
"I don't think Jay has wavered in what he wants to do, but I don't think he wanted to get almost ahead of himself," Spindel said, adding, "Certainly the window to offer policy accommodation before the election ... is closing fast."
Read more: How much control does the president have over the Fed and interest rates?
Trump's ongoing pressure campaign
The Fed will announce its latest interest rate decision at 2 pm ET and is still widely expected to keep its rates at a 23-year high, meaning there will be no near-term relief from elevated borrowing costs. That means the issue will likely stay atop the political agenda.
Those high costs — especially for getting a mortgage — are why many in the political world are pushing for quicker action from the Fed to lower rates.
Housing is why Trump's questioner last week — ABC15 Arizona's Rachel Louise Just — brought up monetary policy during his stop in Phoenix. Trump focused on interest rates and energy prices, saying, "With me, they're coming down, interest rates are coming down, energy is coming down."
But Trump declined to be more specific on Powell even after repeated questions, saying he'd "do whatever is necessary to make America great again."
Former President Donald Trump speaks during a town hall on June 6 in Phoenix, Arizona. (Justin Sullivan/Getty Images) (Justin Sullivan via Getty Images)
Trump has previously said, as in a 2020 news conference, that "I have the right to remove" Powell and has also signaled that he'd attack any move to lower rates before the election as a political move from Powell to help Biden.
But for now, Spindel says that Trump's attacks are unlikely to change Powell's behavior. The former president is already floating possible successors to Powell.
Pressure from the left which could grow
Influential Capitol Hill Democrats are also turning up the pressure with multiple new message to Powell.
The first came in a letter earlier this week from Democratic Sens. Warren, Jacky Rosen, and John Hickenlooper. A second letter came from Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse, the Budget Committee chair, and Rep. Brendan Boyle, the House's top Democrat on the issue.
Wednesday morning's statement from Sen. Heinrich continued the pressure campaign from the left with all messages focused heavily on the costs of housing as they made their case to Powell to lower rates.
"America is also currently facing a housing supply crisis," Whitehouse and Boyle wrote, continuing, "high interest rates exacerbate this supply crisis by increasing the costs to develop new housing while discouraging existing homeowners from upgrading to larger homes."
The case from Biden's allies — which has been echoed by a range of figures, including at least one former Trump economic adviser — is that high interest rates make the inflation problem worse when it comes to housing.
Indeed, Wednesday's new data continued to showed housing was as a key driver of higher core inflation readings.
The shelter index rose 5.4% on an unadjusted, annual basis, a slight slowdown from April. The index rose 0.4% month over month and was the largest factor in the monthly increase in core prices, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) speaks during a Senate hearing in January. (Kent Nishimura/Getty Images) (Kent Nishimura via Getty Images)
"It's becoming a vicious cycle where Chair Powell thumps the housing market and comes back again and says we need more data," charged Bilal Baydoun, the director of policy and research at the left-leaning Groundwork Collaborative.
Baydoun says Powell needs to change course but worries he won't because of politics and "a fear of being perceived as tipping the scales."
Biden has been more circumspect but also commented on the Fed in the context of housing. "I bet you that that little outfit that sets interest rates is going to come down," Biden said in a March speech while discussing mortgages.
It's a prediction he's repeated multiple times in the months since.
In his own statement Wednesday morning following the latest price data, the President cheered “welcome progress on lowering inflation” and did not mention monetary policy.
Read more: What the Fed rate decision means for bank accounts, CDs, loans, and credit cards
Powell's effort to stay out the political crossfire
Powell might be able to stay out of the fray of politics this week, but it could become a tougher job as the summer wears on.
Morningstar chief US market strategist David Sekera noted in a Yahoo Finance live interview this week that a rate cut on the eve of the election in September is still very much a possibility and that Powell would need to indicated that news to the markets at the July meeting.
Lachman predicts that Powell will let in as little politics as possible when he speaks to reporters this week.
"I think that he'll ignore it" and instead focus on the technical aspects of the Fed's work, he said. "He's pretty skillful at that."
But how Powell explains his position when the subject turns to the housing market will likely be closely scrutinized for months to come.
Baydoun says Powell "needs to explain" his approach to that issue. He adds housing is fundamental to how Americans see their future and "I'm fairly confident that the frustration over housing in particular will lead to more scrutiny."
This post has been updated with additional developments. Correction: A previous version of this article misstated Rachel Louise Just's name. We regret the error.
Ben Werschkul is Washington correspondent for Yahoo Finance.
Click here for politics news related to business and money
Read the latest financial and business news from Yahoo Finance


Some Federal Reserve officials are expected Wednesday to dial back their estimates of interest rate cuts in 2024 after digesting a fresh inflation reading.
A cooler-than-expected reading on inflation Wednesday was good news for Fed policy makers, but it isn’t likely enough to convince officials to cut interest rates just yet.
The question it does raise for today’s Federal Open Market Committee meeting is whether the moderation influences some officials to reduce a prior estimate of three cuts for the rest of 2024 to two instead of one.
The Consumer Price Index (CPI) rose 3.3% over the prior year in May — a deceleration from April's 3.4% annual gain in prices.
The year-over-year change in so-called "core" CPI — which excludes volatile food and energy prices the Fed can’t control — was 3.4% compared with 3.6% in April and 3.8% in March.
The measures were cooler than economist estimates.
"Overall this is a good report," Tendayi Kapfidze, chief corporate economist for Wells Fargo, told Yahoo Finance. "It shows the disinflation process is continuing."
Yet this improvement isn’t likely to alter the cautious stance on the part of the Fed, which is widely expected at its policy meeting today to hold rates steady at a 23-year high.
What investors will be watching this afternoon is the release of a new projection about 2024 rate cuts in the form of a so-called "dot plot," a chart updated quarterly that shows the prediction of each Fed official about the direction of the federal funds rate.
In March, the dot plot revealed a consensus among Fed officials for three cuts. Now that projection is in question following a string of sticky inflation readings during the first quarter and cautious commentary from Fed officials.
Most investors now expect just one cut, down from the six cuts they expected at the start of the year.
Federal Reserve Board Chair Jerome Powell. (AP Photo/Susan Walsh) (ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Fed officials on Wednesday will also release fresh forecasts for inflation, the economy and unemployment.
Fed Chair Jay Powell has made clear that, before cutting rates, the Fed will need more than a quarter's worth of data to make a judgment on whether inflation is steadily falling toward the central bank's goal of 2%.
The odds of a first cut in September rose following the CPI report Wednesday morning, with markets now pricing in a 63% chance.
The September meeting is viewed by many as an optimistic case for a first cut. For that to happen, two more inflation reports in the coming months would likely need to show improvement for the central bank to pull the trigger.
The good news from today’s CPI reading could give Powell some reason to offer optimism at his post-meeting press conference today, according to one Fed watcher.
Story continues
"I think this gives Powell the excuse if he wants to be dovish today," said Peter Tchir, Academy Securities macro strategy head, told Yahoo Finance.
Tchir said he believes Powell wants to get one rate cut done before the November election and one or two after the election.
"Any sort of hike this year is completely off the table," he added.
Click here for in-depth analysis of the latest stock market news and events moving stock prices.
Read the latest financial and business news from Yahoo Finance


Consumer price index rose 3.3% in May, as Federal Reserve is due to announce latest decision on interest rates
Inflation cooled slightly in the US last month, as consumers’ frustration over high prices continues to loom over November’s presidential election.
The consumer price index rose at annual pace of 3.3% in May, slipping back from the previous month’s reading of 3.4%.
Price growth has fallen dramatically since surging above 9% two years ago, to its highest level in a generation, during the economic fallout of the Covid-19 pandemic.
But with many Americans still feeling the pinch, the consumer price index has yet to fall as far as policymakers want.
While fuel prices and airline fares fell in May, rising shelter costs, including rent, helped prop up the headline rate of inflation.
On a month-to-month basis, however, prices were flat overall – bolstering hopes that inflation is heading back towards normal levels.
The latest official data was released hours before the Federal Reserve, which raised interest rates sharply in 2022 and 2023 in a bid to cool the US economy, will announce its latest decision.
The central bank is widely expected to keep rates between 5.25% and 5.5%, a two-decade high. It will also publish a closely scrutinized summary of top officials’ expectations for growth, jobs and inflation.
skip past newsletter promotion Sign up to The Stakes — US Election Edition Free newsletter The Guardian guides you through the chaos of a hugely consequential presidential election Enter your email address Sign up Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Privacy Policy . We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. after newsletter promotion
Anxiety over the state of the economy continues to linger. Nearly three in five Americans wrongly believe the US is in recession, according to a Harris poll conducted exclusively for the Guardian last month.
Unemployment is nearing 50-year lows, and Wall Street has risen sharply since the fall. But as Joe Biden seeks re-election to the White House, surveys indicate he is struggling to reassure voters that the economy has strengthened on his watch.


After a cooler-than-expected inflation reading on consumer price increases in May, investors are turning focus to the Federal Reserve decision at 2 p.m. ET.
US stock futures rose on Wednesday after a fresh reading on inflation showed consumer prices increased less than expected in May. The latest snapshot of inflation comes hours before a highly anticipated Federal Reserve meeting in the afternoon will provide the latest signal on the path of interest rates.
S&P 500 futures (ES=F) built on a 27th record close of the year, rising 0.7%. Futures on the tech-heavy Nasdaq 100 (NQ=F) rose nearly 0.9%, also pointing to gains after a record close for the index. Dow Jones Industrial Average futures (YM=F) gained 0.6%.
The Consumer Price Index (CPI) remained flat over the previous month and rose 3.3% over the prior year in May — a deceleration from April's 0.3% month-over-month increase and 3.4% annual gain in prices. Both measures beat economist expectations. On a "core" basis, which strips out the more volatile costs of food and gas, prices in May climbed 0.2% over the prior month and 3.4% over last year — cooler than April's data. Both measures also came in better than economist estimates.
Read more: How does the labor market affect inflation?
ADVERTISEMENT
Meanwhile, the Fed's decision is all but certain — the central bank is expected to keep rates at their current 23-year-high levels. Investors will be more closely watching the release of the Fed's updated economic projections in its "dot plot" — specifically, how many rate cuts it projects for the rest of the year.
Last we heard, in March, it was three. Policymakers are almost certain to slash that, thanks in part to the aforementioned inflation's stickiness to start this year. Those projections, along with what Fed Chair Jerome Powell says in his press conference, could be the last market-moving events in an extraordinarily busy day.
In corporates, Apple (AAPL) shares cooled off after surging to a record high on Tuesday. Shares fell 0.2% premarket.


After a cooler-than-expected inflation reading on consumer price increases in May, investors are turning focus to the Federal Reserve decision at 2 p.m. ET.
US stock futures rose on Wednesday after a fresh reading on inflation showed consumer prices increased less than expected in May. The latest snapshot of inflation comes hours before a highly anticipated Federal Reserve meeting in the afternoon will provide the latest signal on the path of interest rates.
S&P 500 futures (ES=F) built on a 27th record close of the year, rising 0.7%. Futures on the tech-heavy Nasdaq 100 (NQ=F) rose nearly 0.9%, also pointing to gains after a record close for the index. Dow Jones Industrial Average futures (YM=F) gained 0.6%.
The Consumer Price Index (CPI) remained flat over the previous month and rose 3.3% over the prior year in May — a deceleration from April's 0.3% month-over-month increase and 3.4% annual gain in prices. Both measures beat economist expectations. On a "core" basis, which strips out the more volatile costs of food and gas, prices in May climbed 0.2% over the prior month and 3.4% over last year — cooler than April's data. Both measures also came in better than economist estimates.
Read more: How does the labor market affect inflation?
ADVERTISEMENT
Meanwhile, the Fed's decision is all but certain — the central bank is expected to keep rates at their current 23-year-high levels. Investors will be more closely watching the release of the Fed's updated economic projections in its "dot plot" — specifically, how many rate cuts it projects for the rest of the year.
Last we heard, in March, it was three. Policymakers are almost certain to slash that, thanks in part to the aforementioned inflation's stickiness to start this year. Those projections, along with what Fed Chair Jerome Powell says in his press conference, could be the last market-moving events in an extraordinarily busy day.
In corporates, Apple (AAPL) shares cooled off after surging to a record high on Tuesday. Shares fell 0.2% premarket.


After a cooler-than-expected inflation reading on consumer price increases in May, investors are turning focus to the Federal Reserve decision at 2 p.m. ET.
US stock futures rose on Wednesday after a fresh reading on inflation showed consumer prices increased less than expected in May. The latest snapshot of inflation comes hours before a highly anticipated Federal Reserve meeting in the afternoon will provide the latest signal on the path of interest rates.
S&P 500 futures (ES=F) built on a 27th record close of the year, rising 0.7%. Futures on the tech-heavy Nasdaq 100 (NQ=F) rose nearly 0.9%, also pointing to gains after a record close for the index. Dow Jones Industrial Average futures (YM=F) gained 0.6%.
The Consumer Price Index (CPI) remained flat over the previous month and rose 3.3% over the prior year in May — a deceleration from April's 0.3% month-over-month increase and 3.4% annual gain in prices. Both measures beat economist expectations. On a "core" basis, which strips out the more volatile costs of food and gas, prices in May climbed 0.2% over the prior month and 3.4% over last year — cooler than April's data. Both measures also came in better than economist estimates.
Read more: How does the labor market affect inflation?
Meanwhile, the Fed's decision is all but certain — the central bank is expected to keep rates at their current 23-year-high levels. Investors will be more closely watching the release of the Fed's updated economic projections in its "dot plot" — specifically, how many rate cuts it projects for the rest of the year.
Last we heard, in March, it was three. Policymakers are almost certain to slash that, thanks in part to the aforementioned inflation's stickiness to start this year. Those projections, along with what Fed Chair Jerome Powell says in his press conference, could be the last market-moving events in an extraordinarily busy day.
In corporates, Apple (AAPL) shares cooled off after surging to a record high on Tuesday. Shares fell 0.2% premarket.
Live 5 updates It's risk on in markets after the CPI print Stock futures shot higher after the cooler-than-expected reading on consumer prices for the month of May. S&P 500 futures (ES=F) built on a 27th record close of the year, rising 0.7%. Futures on the tech-heavy Nasdaq 100 (NQ=F) rose nearly 0.9%, also pointing to gains after a record close for the index. Dow Jones Industrial Average futures (YM=F) gained 0.6%. Notably, interest rate-sensitive areas of the market saw the biggest gains. Futures tied to the Russell 2000 (RT=F) were up about 2.3%. This came as investors quickly recalibrated their expectations for rate cuts this year. Following the data's release, markets were pricing in a roughly 69% chance the Federal Reserve begins to cut rates by its September meeting, according to data from the CME FedWatch Tool. That's up from about a 53% chance the day prior.
Inflation pressures ease more than expected US consumer price increases cooled during the month of May, according to the latest data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics released Wednesday morning. The Consumer Price Index (CPI) was flat over the previous month and 3.3% over the prior year in May, a deceleration from April's 3.4%, and lower than the 3.4% year-over-year change economists had expected. May's monthly increase came in lower than economist forecasts of a 0.1% uptick. On a "core" basis, which strips out the more volatile costs of food and gas, prices in May climbed 0.2% over the prior month and 3.4% over last year — cooler than April's data. Both measures were lower than economist expectations.
Nvidia as the sun... A tip of the hat to Apollo chief economist Torsten Slok for this vibe check on the S&P 500. Clearly, Nvidia (NVDA) is the sun that 499 other companies revolve around. Note: Apollo is the parent company of Yahoo Finance. It's an Nvidia market. (Apollo)
JP Morgan weighs in on the Musk pay package vote The Tesla (TSLA) shareholder vote on Elon Musk's $56 billion pay package is coming down to the wire. Ahead of the vote on Thursday, Tesla just dropped this post on Musk owned X detailing its CEO's accomplishments (note this is weird to see from a corporate X account, but hey, this is Musk we are talking about here). A new Yahoo Finance poll is currently showing 96% of the people that have voted think Musk's pay package shouldn't be approved. Meantime, JP Morgan analyst Ryan Brinkman is weighing in with a note this morning: "While both ISS and Glass Lewis, as well as several prominent institutional and retail shareholders, have voiced opposition to the 2024 ratification of Mr. Musk’s 2018 compensation plan, we rather suspect it will pass, albeit with a lesser approval rate than in 2018 and perhaps by a lesser margin than popularly imagined. We base this expectation on anecdotal evidence of strong retail shareholder support and based on our conversations with institutional investors whose reasoning, on the whole, seems similar to when asked to vote in favor of the Solar City acquisition. Investors we spoke with then largely did not support the Solar City acquisition, but worried there would be a more negative share price reaction in the event the transaction were voted down, given the perception of a vote of no confidence." Brinkman reiterated an underweight rating (sell equivalent) on Tesla shares and a $115 price target, which assumes about 32% downside from current price levels. Read more here on the Musk vote and key CEO pay package votes from Yahoo Finance senior legal reporter Alexis Keenan.
Affirm still on the move after big Apple deal Affirm (AFRM) is still one of the hotter tickers on the Yahoo Finance platform after news dropped Tuesday of an integration into Apple (AAPL) Pay. Shares are up 1.5% pre-market following an 11% pop yesterday. I caught up last night with Affirm's founder and CEO Max Levchin for a new taping of my 'Opening Bid' podcast. The full episode (which goes into Levchin's views on AI and the political vibes in Silicon Valley) will release on Friday morning on Yahoo Finance and major podcast platforms. But I put a clip below of Levchin's comments on the tie-up below for you to check out. Levchin stops short of sharing how this deal will financially impact Affirm (could be big given the 1.4 billion iPhones out in the wild worldwide), but hinted it could be a strong top- and bottom-line contributor over time. He did acknowledge the deal "validates" the buy now, pay later space — which has been under siege from regulators and other parties almost since inception.


On Wednesday, investors will digest one of the most important data points that will shape future Federal Reserve interest rate policy: May's Consumer Price Index.
A closely-watched report on US inflation showed consumer price increases cooled during the month of May, according to the latest data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics released Wednesday morning.
The Consumer Price Index (CPI) remained flat over the previous month and rose 3.3% over the prior year in May — a deceleration from April's 0.3% month-over-month increase and 3.4% annual gain in prices. Both measures beat economist expectations.
A decline in energy prices, led by a drop in gas prices, contributed to further downward pressure on headline CPI.
On a "core" basis, which strips out the more volatile costs of food and gas, prices in May climbed 0.2% over the prior month and 3.4% over last year — cooler than April's data. Both measures also came in ahead of economist estimates.
ADVERTISEMENT
Markets rose on the heels of the report, with the 10-year Treasury yield (^TNX) falling about 12 basis points to trade around 4.29%. The inflation report arrives just ahead of the central bank's policy decision at 2 p.m. ET.
Inflation has remained stubbornly above the Federal Reserve's 2% target on an annual basis. And even though this CPI report won't have an outsized effect on the looming Fed decision, the timing has perhaps added even more spectacle around its release.
Fed officials have categorized the path down to 2% as "bumpy," while other recent economic data has fueled the Fed's higher-for-longer narrative on the path of interest rates.
On Friday, the Bureau of Labor Statistics showed the labor market added 272,000 nonfarm payroll jobs last month, significantly more additions than the 180,000 expected by economists. Wages also came in ahead of estimates at 4.1%, although the unemployment rate rose slightly to 4% from 3.9%.
Notably, the Fed's preferred inflation gauge, the so-called core PCE price index, has remained particularly sticky. The year-over-year change in core PCE, closely watched by the Fed, held steady at 2.8% for the month of April, matching March.
Story continues
Investors now anticipate a range of one to two 25-basis-point cuts in 2024, down from the six cuts expected at the start of the year, according to Bloomberg data.
Following the data's release, markets were pricing in a roughly 69% chance the Federal Reserve begins to cut rates at its September meeting, according to data from the CME FedWatch Tool. That's up from about a 53% chance the day prior.
Shelter prices remain sticky, energy index falls
Notable call-outs from the inflation print include the shelter index, which rose 5.4% on an unadjusted, annual basis, a slight slowdown from April. The index rose 0.4% month over month and was the largest factor in the monthly increase in core prices, according to the BLS.
Sticky shelter inflation is largely to blame for higher core inflation readings, according to economists.
The index for rent and owners' equivalent rent (OER) each rose 0.4% on a monthly basis, matching April's rise. Owners' equivalent rent is the hypothetical rent a homeowner would pay for the same property.
Lodging away from home decreased 0.1% in May after falling 0.2% in April.
Federal Reserve Board Chair Jerome Powell speaks during a news conference at the Federal Reserve in Washington, May 1, 2024. (AP Photo/Susan Walsh, File) (ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Energy prices fell in May, driven by a significant drop in gas prices. The index declined 2% over the prior month after rising 1.1% in April. On a yearly basis, the index climbed 3.7%.
Gas prices fell 3.6% from April to May after rising 2.8% the previous month.
The food index increased 2.1% in May over the last year, with food prices rising 0.1% from April to May. The index for food at home came in flat over the month while food away from home rose 0.4%.
Other indexes that increased in April included medical care, used cars and trucks, and education.
The indexes for airline fares, new vehicles, communication, recreation, and apparel were among those that decreased over the month, according to the BLS.
Alexandra Canal is a Senior Reporter at Yahoo Finance. Follow her on X @allie_canal, LinkedIn, and email her at alexandra.canal@yahoofinance.com.
Click here for the latest stock market news and in-depth analysis, including events that move stocks
Read the latest financial and business news from Yahoo Finance


The trend, if it holds, could move the Federal Reserve closer to cutting its benchmark interest rate from its 23-year peak
Open this photo in gallery: A customer shops at a Safeway store in Mill Valley, Calif., on June 11.Justin Sullivan/Getty Images
Inflation in the United States eased last month in a hopeful sign that a pickup in prices that occurred early this year may have passed. The trend, if it holds, could move the Federal Reserve closer to cutting its benchmark interest rate from its 23-year peak.
Consumer prices excluding volatile food and energy costs – the closely watched “core” index – rose 0.2 per cent from April to May, the government said Wednesday. That was down from 0.3 per cent the previous month and was the smallest increase since October. Measured from a year earlier, core prices rose 3.4 per cent, below last month’s 3.6 per cent increase.
Fed officials are scrutinizing each month’s inflation data to assess their progress in their fight against rising prices. Even as overall inflation moderates, such necessities as groceries, rent and health care are much pricier than they were three years ago – a continuing source of public discontent and a political threat to President Joe Biden’s re-election bid. Most other measures suggest that the economy is healthy: Unemployment remains low, hiring is robust and consumers are traveling, eating out and spending on entertainment.
The Fed has kept its key rate unchanged for nearly a year after having rapidly raised it in 2022 and 2023 to fight the worst bout of inflation in four decades. Those higher rates have led, in turn, to more expensive mortgages, auto loans, credit cards and other forms of consumer and business borrowing. Though inflation is now far below its peak of 9.1 per cent in mid-2022, it remains above the Fed’s target level.


Inflation cooled more than expected in May, new data showed Wednesday, delivering a welcome piece of news just hours before the Federal Reserve is set to make its latest announcement on interest rates.
CNN —
Inflation cooled more than expected in May, new data showed Wednesday, delivering a welcome piece of news just hours before the Federal Reserve is set to make its latest announcement on interest rates.
Consumer prices rose 3.3% from a year earlier, slowing from April’s 3.4% rate, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics’ latest Consumer Price Index report released Wednesday.
On a monthly basis, prices held flat for the first time since July 2022. Falling gas prices kept inflation in check following a 0.3% gain in April.
“This is the best news we could’ve gotten this morning,” Philip T. Powell, executive director of the Indiana Business Research Center and clinical associate professor at the Indiana University Kelley School of Business, told CNN. “The Federal Reserve has been watching to make sure this [monthly] number came in below 0.2%.”
“If it did, that means inflation is going to come down, which means [the Fed] could lower interest rates,” he added.
Economists were expecting a 0.1% monthly increase and an annual gain of 3.4%, according to FactSet consensus estimates.
Helping to slow inflation in May were falling gas prices, which dropped 3.6% from April. They’re still up 2.2% for the year. Grocery prices were flat and overall food prices went up by 0.1%, lifted by a slight acceleration in inflation at the restaurant level.
Car insurance and transportation prices fall, but housing inflation is stuck running high
Excluding gas and food, categories that tend to be volatile, the closely watched “core” measure rose just 0.2% for the month (its slowest pace since October of last year), and its annual rate dropped to 3.4%, setting a fresh three-year low.
“Adding to the good inflation news, core services inflation (excludes energy services) printed its mildest monthly increase since September 2021,” Kathy Bostjancic, Nationwide’s chief economist, wrote in a note issued Wednesday. “This is significant since core services inflation has been very sticky and the key reason overall inflation has not cooled more quickly.”
However, shelter inflation more than offset the decline in gasoline, rising 0.4% for the fourth month in a row, underscoring the pressure Americans are feeling from housing-related expenses. On an annual basis, shelter inflation slowed a tenth of a percentage point to 5.4%, which is its lowest rate since April 2022. However, in addition to outpacing overall inflation, the cost of shelter is running above its pre-pandemic average and the 3.3% rate in February 2020.
The shelter index, an abstruse measurement of housing costs, has been the thorn in the side of the Fed’s desire to see overall inflation return to target. (That target, by the way, is based on a separate inflation gauge, the Personal Consumption Expenditures price index, which stayed pat at 2.7% in April.)
Shelter’s heavily weighted in the CPI, and while it doesn’t fully reflect some of the slowdown seen in market-rate rents, its persistently high readings certainly do speak to the pain Americans are feeling in their biggest monthly expense.
“The one thing that sticks out in these numbers is the continued struggle with housing affordability,” Indiana University’s Powell said. “There is so much pent-up demand out there for housing, it’s not going to go away.”
Transportation services prices fell for the first time since the fall of 2021, dropping 0.5% for the month. And motor vehicle insurance prices ticked down by 0.1%, a sharp contrast from the spikes seen during the past two months.
Still, those costs continue to run hot for consumers, with transportation services prices up 10.5% from a year ago and car insurance up 20.3%.
“The big and important things that households spend their money on — food, transportation and shelter — there’s not been a lot of relief there,” Sean Snaith, University of Central Florida economist, told CNN.
Soft CPI boosts chances for Fed cuts
The CPI, which tracks average change in prices for a basket of goods and services common to consumers, is the most widely cited inflation metric.
But on Wednesday, it was merely the opening act.
The report landed just hours before the Fed was scheduled to wrap up its policymaking meeting, deliver its latest economic projections, and announce the next steps for interest rates.
Although the softer CPI likely will be welcomed by central bankers, economists say it won’t be enough to move the needle on interest rates, which are overwhelmingly expected to hold steady Wednesday (markets are seeing a mere 0.1% probability of a June cut).
“Logically, then, today’s news would seem to open the door to a July rate cut, although we still think that’s very unlikely given hawkish rhetoric from the Fed recently,” Preston Caldwell, chief US economist at Morningstar, wrote Wednesday. “But rate cuts starting by September should now be cemented as overwhelmingly likely.”
Traders seem to agree: The latest projections from the CME FedWatch Tool had the likelihood of a September rate cut at nearly 63% on Wednesday morning, jumping from 46.8% Tuesday.
The Fed on Wednesday is expected to tip its hand some with the release of the latest Summary of Economic Projections (SEP). The quarterly publication includes the central bankers’ forecasts for key economic indicators such as inflation, GDP growth and unemployment as well as the “dot plot,” a chart of their expectations for interest rates.
When the Fed released its prior SEP back in March, it showed the possibility of three cuts penciled in for the remainder of the year.
Economists expect that number to drop, given that there are fewer months left on that runway and still fairly strong economic data touching down (be it the hotter-than-expected inflation reports to start the year or the stronger-than-expected job gains).
“The CPI report for May came in a bit better than we dared hope for given the string of disappointing readings to start the year,” Scott Anderson, chief US economist for BMO Bank, wrote in a note Wednesday. “If sustained, it will keep Fed rate-cut expectations that we have penciled in for September and December alive and well. Restrictive monetary policy has more work to do, and the Fed will remain patient and watchful.”


Investors braced for a Federal Reserve meeting that should signpost the path of interest rates, with a key inflation print also waiting in the wings.
US stock futures trudged higher Wednesday before a significant day for the US economy that will provide the latest snapshot of the state of inflation and the latest signal on the path of interest rates
S&P 500 futures (ES=F) built on its 27th record close of the year, rising 0.1%. Futures on the tech-heavy Nasdaq 100 (NQ=F) rose 0.2%, also pointing to gains after a record close for the index. Dow Jones Industrial Average futures (YM=F) gained 0.1%.
Wall Street is set for a one-two punch Wednesday, with the latest reading on consumer prices coming at 8:30 a.m. ET. In the afternoon, the Federal Reserve will unveil its latest decision on interest rates.
The pace of inflation is expected to have eased last month after some hotter-than-expected surprises in the first half of 2024. The Consumer Price Index is expected to show headline inflation of 3.4%, which would match April, according to estimates from Bloomberg. On a "core" basis, which strips out food and gas, prices in May are expected to have risen 3.5% over last year — a slight slowdown from April.
ADVERTISEMENT
Read more: How does the labor market affect inflation?
Meanwhile, the Fed's decision is all but certain — the central bank is expected to keep rates at their current 23-year high levels. Investors will be more closely watching the release of the Fed's updated economic projections in its "dot plot" — specifically how many rate cuts it projects for the rest of the year.
Last we heard, in March, it was three. Policymakers are almost certain to slash that, thanks in part to the aforementioned inflation's stickiness to start this year. Those projections, along with what Fed Chair Jerome Powell says in his new conference, could be the last market-moving events in an extraordinarily busy day.
In corporates, Apple (AAPL) shares cooled off after surging to a record high on Tuesday. Shares fell 0.4% premarket.


Given the current stalled progress on inflation, many analysts expect the Fed’s ‘dot plot’ projection for its benchmark policy rate to show only two quarter-percentage-point rate cuts by the end of this year
Open this photo in gallery: The U.S. Federal Reserve building, in Washington, on July 31, 2013.Jonathan Ernst/Reuters
The Federal Reserve is expected to leave interest rates unchanged on Wednesday, with new economic projections from the U.S. central bank’s policy-makers likely to show fewer rate cuts this year and a delayed start to monetary policy easing.
Fed officials will receive a new round of inflation data that could shape their outlook just hours before they conclude their latest two-day meeting and release a fresh policy statement and updated quarterly projections.
But with the Fed’s efforts to lower inflation to its 2 per cent target showing only modest improvement this year through April and strong job growth allaying concerns of a weakening economy, analysts expect the central bank to maintain its “no-rush” attitude towards rate cuts, leaving the benchmark policy rate in the 5.25 per cent-5.50 per cent range that was set last July.
“Given that inflation remains above target and activity remains robust, the Fed can exercise patience in determining when it would next adjust its policy rate,” Bank of America economists wrote about a meeting they felt would see little change to the central bank’s policy statement or in the guidance Fed Chair Jerome Powell offers in his post-meeting news conference.
The statement is due to be released at 2 p.m. EDT (1800 GMT), with Powell speaking to reporters half an hour later.
Given the current stalled progress on inflation, many analysts expect the Fed’s “dot plot” projection for its benchmark policy rate to show only two quarter-percentage-point rate cuts by the end of this year, versus the three anticipated as of March – if only to account for the lapse of time.
But the median could easily tip to only one cut among a nearly evenly divided group of policy-makers.
“If there is any risk … it’s that there will be only one 25-basis-point rate cut this year,” said Joe Brusuelas, chief economist for RSM US, with Powell using his news conference to “manage expectations” at a point where Fed policy-makers feel particularly uncertain about the path the economy may follow.
Powell and other policy-makers have minimized the risk of a further rate increase. The Fed aggressively raised rates in 2022 and 2023 after inflation surged to a 40-year peak.
The personal consumption expenditures price index, the Fed’s preferred inflation measure, has declined from a 7.1 per cent peak annual pace in June 2022 to 2.7 per cent as of April. The current policy rate is regarded as restrictive enough to discourage investment and spending and gradually return inflation to the Fed’s target.
Yet policy-makers are not ready to commit to any cuts until they’ve seen more progress. Just as they acknowledge risks that unemployment could rise fast and warrant rate cuts to support the economy, they see aspects of inflation, particularly in housing and the broad services sector, that may have stalled at too high a level.
Economists polled by Reuters expect the consumer price index rose only 0.1 per cent in May, which would be the weakest reading since October, with “core” prices excluding food and energy forecast to increase 0.3 per cent. The U.S. Labor Department is due to release the CPI report at 8:30 a.m. EDT.
While the year-over-year CPI rates are expected to show no or little change from April, the report’s details should be seen “as a step in the right direction,” after inflation surged more than expected earlier in 2024, BNP Paribas economists wrote.
In their final comments before the latest policy meeting, a number of central bank officials, including Fed Governor Christopher Waller, said they needed to see several more months of improving inflation data before deciding to cut rates, statements investors have construed as pushing back any rate reduction to the Fed’s Sept. 17-18 meeting at the earliest.
Even that start date for the policy easing is a virtual toss-up. As of Tuesday, there was less than a 51 per cent likelihood of a U.S. rate cut in September, according to CME Group’s FedWatch Tool.


The Federal Reserve said Wednesday it is keeping its benchmark lending rate at its current level for the seventh time in a row, while signaling fewer rate cuts than previously estimated.
Washington CNN —
The Federal Reserve said Wednesday it is keeping its benchmark lending rate at its current level for the seventh time in a row, while signaling fewer rate cuts than previously estimated.
That means borrowing costs on everything from car loans to mortgage rates will remain elevated.
Officials penciled in just one rate cut this year, according to their latest economic projections, compared to the three they forecast in March. They also expect inflation to be more stubborn this year than they thought in the spring, according to their forecasts.
Fed Chair Jerome Powell noted that the May Consumer Price Index, released earlier Wednesday, was “certainly a better inflation report than almost anybody expected.” But he said officials still want to see inflation slow further before lowering borrowing costs.
The Fed has kept interest rates at a 23-year high for nearly a year, after kicking off an aggressive rate-hiking campaign in March 2022. Central bankers are waiting for more evidence that inflation is headed toward 2% — and the economy’s resilience is allowing them to be comfortably on hold. The Fed will begin cutting interest rates once it’s clear that inflation has cooled enough and won’t heat back up — or if the job market deteriorates much more than expected, but there are currently not many signs of that.
The inflation situation is now better than it was in the first quarter: Consumer prices eased in May, the Labor Department reported Wednesday morning. From a year earlier, inflation rose 3.3% in May, down from April’s 3.4% rise and also below economists’ expectations.
Fed officials’ latest policy statement noted that inflation has seen some “modest further progress” toward their 2% target in recent months, versus the May statement that noted there had been a “lack” of any improvements.
Here are key takeaways from the Fed’s latest decision on interest rates.
Powell calls May inflation data ‘encouraging’
Not only was the Fed chief pleased with Wednesday’s inflation report, saying it was a “good reading,” but he maintained his view that interest rates are “restrictive” enough to rein in price hikes.
Powell pointed to the substantial progress seen in the second half of last year as an example. Still, he said officials now think “it’s probably going to take longer to get the confidence needed to loosen policy,” compared to what they thought in March. That’s precisely what officials’ forecasts showed.
When asked what will help tug inflation closer to the Fed’s 2% target, Powell said slower inflation will come “from where it’s been coming from,” pointing to the “the unwinding of the pandemic-related distortions to both supply and demand.”
“And that is complemented by, amplified by, supported by restrictive monetary policy, so those two things are working together,” he said. “We’ve made pretty good progress on inflation with our current [policy] stance.”
Economists have said that it’s only a matter of time until declining rents show up in official inflation gauges. Still-high housing costs are still looming large in the CPI: Shelter inflation more than offset the decline in gasoline seen last month, rising 0.4% for the fourth month in a row, the May CPI showed.
No concerns about the job market
Powell has frequently said the job market likely needs to come back “into better balance” to ensure that inflation is on track to 2%. That’s because a labor market that’s running too hot could put some upward pressure on prices, making the Fed’s job of fully defeating inflation more difficult.
The Fed chief says so far so good.
“Overall, a broad set of indicators suggest that conditions in the labor market have returned to about where they stood on the eve of the pandemic, relatively tight but not overheated,” Powell said in his post-meeting press conference on Wednesday afternoon.
He pointed to data proving just that: Job gains averaging 218,000 a month in April and May; unemployment still at low levels, job creation driven by more prime-aged workers and immigrants trickling into the workforce; slower wage growth; and a narrower jobs-to-workers ratio.
The Fed focuses on the job market not just because of its implications on inflation, but also because the central bank is explicitly tasked by Congress to strive toward maximum employment. If the labor market unexpectedly weakens, then that could force the Fed to consider cutting rates, but Powell didn’t sound concerned at all.
“We see gradual cooling, gradual moving toward a better balance,” he said. “We’re monitoring it carefully for signs of something more than that, but we really don’t see that.”
First rate cut in September?
Wall Street’s best bet for the first rate cut is currently September, according to futures, and those odds improved markedly after the release of the May CPI. For that to happen, however, inflation will have to continue to drift lower in the coming months.
Officials frequently emphasize that they are “data dependent” and make conclusions about the economy after data stretching over several months reveal a trend. It’s unclear if the factors that resulted in hotter-than-expected inflation readings earlier this year are still lurking in the background, but the May CPI provided some relief.
“The belief that components boosting inflation in the first quarter were not indicative of current cost pressures needed to be validated. May’s report provides strong evidence on that front,” Matt Colyar, an economist at Moody’s Analytics, said in a note Wednesday. “The Fed is banking it can wait a few more months until inflation falls further.”
The US economy remains on strong footing for now, including the job market as employers continue to hire at a brisk pace. But it’s unmistakable that some US consumers are under pressure. Still-high inflation is continuing to eat into some budgets, pandemic savings are drying up, borrowers continue to pile on more debt and the highest interest rates in nearly a quarter century are squeezing Americans.


Greenback held firm ahead of a key U.S. inflation report and Federal Reserve policy decision that could determine the near-term outlook for interest rates
Global stocks rose on Wednesday, helped by positive sentiment in the technology sector, while the U.S. dollar held firm ahead of a key U.S. inflation report and Federal Reserve policy decision that could determine the near-term outlook for interest rates.
European markets rose, recovering some of the losses earlier this week stemming from nervousness over the political landscape in France, where President Emmanuel Macron called a snap vote at the weekend after his party was trounced in European Union elections by the far right.
Overnight on Wall Street, Apple surged 7 per cent to a record high a day after it unveiled new AI features meant to rekindle demand for iPhones. That helped the Nasdaq Composite rise 0.9 per cent and the S&P 500 gain 0.3 per cent to record closing highs.
Focus is now turning to the U.S. consumer price index (CPI) data later in the day, which is forecast to rise a slim 0.1 per cent in May from a month earlier, but with the core up 0.3 per cent.
“The countdown is on, with the market going into full risk management mode,” said Chris Weston, head of research at Pepperstone.
“I like to use U.S. core CPI m/m as my simple playbook guide, so any number that rounds to 0.2 per cent m/m could offer relief in risk markets and bring out USD sellers, while a number that rounds to 0.4 per cent could see U.S. two-year yields rise and with it the USD comes in hot.”
The MSCI All-World index rose 0.14 per cent on the day. In Europe, the STOXX 600 gained 0.5 per cent, rising for the first time in four days.
Britain’s FTSE 100 gained 0.61 per cent, Germany’s DAX added 0.36 per cent and France’s CAC 40 advanced 0.22 per cent.
U.S. stock futures were up 0.1 per cent, indicating a modestly stronger start on Wall Street later.
On the Asian markets, Chinese blue chips ended the day mostly steady, as still-soft price data failing to lift sentiment much. Data showed on Wednesday that China’s consumer prices fell 0.1 per cent in May from a month earlier, missing forecasts. On an annual basis, they rose 0.3 per cent.
In Asia, Japan’s Nikkei closed 0.66 per cent lower at 38,876.71, while Hong Kong’s Hang Seng fell 1.31 per cent to 17,937.84.
In the currency markets, the dollar index has held on to its post-payrolls gains since Friday, standing at 105.2 against its major peers.
The euro edged up 0.1 per cent to US$1.0752, but has fallen for the previous three days, on the back of nerves over the French election might mean for politics and policy.
French stocks and bonds have been battered this week, as political uncertainty has unnerved investors and prompted three ratings agencies to warn the snap election poses a risk to the country’s credit standing.
The euro is around its weakest in almost two years against the pound too. Sterling was up 0.14 per cent against the dollar at US$1.2757, shrugging off data that showed the British economy did not grow at all in April, after a strong start to 2024.
“The market had low expectations for the U.K. economy in April, and it duly delivered,” said Nicholas Hyett, investment manager at Wealth Club.
The Fed is not expected to make any change to interest rates at its policy meeting. Instead, the focus will be on whether it keeps three rate cuts in its “dot plot” projections for this year.
Futures imply 39 basis points of Fed easing for this year .
Treasuries, which rallied overnight on the robust result of a 10-year Treasury auction, steadied. The 10-year yield held at 4.402 per cent, after falling 7 bps in the previous session.
Oil prices extended gains for a third straight session. Brent futures rose 0.7 per cent to US$82.53 a barrel, while U.S. crude futures gained 0.9 per cent to US$78.62 a barrel.
Gold prices edged 0.1 per cent lower to US$2,314 per ounce.
- Reuters
Be smart with your money. Get the latest investing insights delivered right to your inbox three times a week, with the Globe Investor newsletter. Sign up today.


Federal Reserve officials are expected Wednesday to dial back their estimates of interest rate cuts in 2024 after digesting a fresh inflation reading.
Investors are bracing for Federal Reserve officials this afternoon to dial back estimates of interest rate cuts in 2024.
Before policymakers go public with those predictions, they get a fresh inflation reading from the Consumer Price Index (CPI) that is expected to show continued moderation in May after an encouraging April.
The year-over-year change in so-called "core" CPI — which excludes volatile food and energy prices the Fed can’t control — is expected to edge down a tenth of a percent to 3.5%, compared with 3.6% in April and 3.8% in March.
Yet this improvement isn’t likely to alter the cautious stance on the part of the Fed, which is widely expected at its policy meeting today to hold rates steady at a 23-year high.
ADVERTISEMENT
It will release a new projection about 2024 rate cuts in the form of a so-called "dot plot," a chart updated quarterly that shows the prediction of each Fed official about the direction of the federal funds rate.
In March, the dot plot revealed a consensus among Fed officials for three cuts. Now that projection is in question following a string of sticky inflation readings during the first quarter and cautious commentary from Fed officials.
Most investors now expect just one cut, down from the six cuts they expected at the start of the year.
Fed officials on Wednesday will also release fresh forecasts for inflation, the economy and unemployment.
Federal Reserve Board Chair Jerome Powell. (AP Photo/Susan Walsh) (ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Fed Chair Jay Powell has made clear that, before cutting rates, the Fed will need more than a quarter's worth of data to make a judgment on whether inflation is steadily falling toward the central bank's goal of 2%.
Thus the September meeting is viewed by many as an optimistic case for a first cut. For that to happen, today's inflation report and the two that follow in the coming months would likely need to show improvement for the central bank to pull the trigger.
As of Tuesday, markets were pricing in a roughly 48% chance the Federal Reserve begins to cut rates at its September meeting, according to data from the CME Group.
Story continues
The November and December meetings are considered by many Fed watchers as more likely opportunities for a first cut.
The Fed will announce its policy decision at 2 pm ET, followed by Powell’s press conference at 2:30 pm ET.
Click here for in-depth analysis of the latest stock market news and events moving stock prices.
Read the latest financial and business news from Yahoo Finance


Federal Reserve officials are expected Wednesday to dial back their estimates of interest rate cuts in 2024 after digesting a fresh inflation reading.
Investors are bracing for Federal Reserve officials this afternoon to dial back estimates of interest rate cuts in 2024.
Before policymakers go public with those predictions, they get a fresh inflation reading from the Consumer Price Index (CPI) that is expected to show continued moderation in May after an encouraging April.
The year-over-year change in so-called "core" CPI — which excludes volatile food and energy prices the Fed can’t control — is expected to edge down a tenth of a percent to 3.5%, compared with 3.6% in April and 3.8% in March.
Yet this improvement isn’t likely to alter the cautious stance on the part of the Fed, which is widely expected at its policy meeting today to hold rates steady at a 23-year high.
It will release a new projection about 2024 rate cuts in the form of a so-called "dot plot," a chart updated quarterly that shows the prediction of each Fed official about the direction of the federal funds rate.
In March, the dot plot revealed a consensus among Fed officials for three cuts. Now that projection is in question following a string of sticky inflation readings during the first quarter and cautious commentary from Fed officials.
Most investors now expect just one cut, down from the six cuts they expected at the start of the year.
Fed officials on Wednesday will also release fresh forecasts for inflation, the economy and unemployment.
Federal Reserve Board Chair Jerome Powell. (AP Photo/Susan Walsh) (ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Fed Chair Jay Powell has made clear that, before cutting rates, the Fed will need more than a quarter's worth of data to make a judgment on whether inflation is steadily falling toward the central bank's goal of 2%.
Thus the September meeting is viewed by many as an optimistic case for a first cut. For that to happen, today's inflation report and the two that follow in the coming months would likely need to show improvement for the central bank to pull the trigger.
As of Tuesday, markets were pricing in a roughly 48% chance the Federal Reserve begins to cut rates at its September meeting, according to data from the CME Group.
The November and December meetings are considered by many Fed watchers as more likely opportunities for a first cut.
The Fed will announce its policy decision at 2 pm ET, followed by Powell’s press conference at 2:30 pm ET.
Click here for in-depth analysis of the latest stock market news and events moving stock prices.
Read the latest financial and business news from Yahoo Finance


With monetary policy at the Bank of Canada and U.S. Federal Reserve on track to diverge, experts say it could set the Canadian dollar up for volatility down the road.
With monetary policy at the Bank of Canada and U.S. Federal Reserve on track to diverge, experts say it could set the Canadian dollar up for volatility down the road.
If the Bank of Canada’s rate falls too far below the Fed’s, it could negatively affect the loonie, said Allan Small, senior investment adviser at IA Private Wealth. This would make imports from the U.S. — Canada's biggest trading partner — more expensive and put upward pressure on inflation, though he added this isn’t something that happens overnight.
“If the Bank of Canada cuts a few times and the Fed stands pat, I don't think that will be an issue,” he said.
But if the Bank of Canada keeps cutting and the Fed holds on past the first quarter of next year, “then we could start to see significant divergence.”
The Fed is widely expected to hold its key interest rate steady on Wednesday as the country’s economy has been more resilient than expected in the face of higher borrowing costs and inflation.
It’s a different story in Canada, where last week, the Bank of Canada announced its first interest rate cut in more than four years after a steep hiking cycle aimed at tamping down inflation.
At a June 5 press conference discussing the rate cut, governor Tiff Macklem said the central bank has more confidence that inflation is heading toward its two per cent target.
He acknowledged there are limits to how far the Bank of Canada can diverge from the U.S. in terms of rate policy, but he said “we’re not close to those limits.”
The Bank of Canada cut its key lending rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 4.75 per cent while the U.S. federal funds rate currently sits at 5.25 per cent to 5.50 per cent.
Canada’s economy is more sensitive to interest rates, in large part because Canadians have five-year mortgage terms, while in the U.S., terms are 30 years, said Brianne Gardner, senior wealth manager of Velocity Investment Partners at Raymond James Ltd.
This means far more Canadian homeowners have had to renew their mortgages during this period of higher rates, which has led consumers to rein in their spending.
“It’s really a tale of two economies,” said Small.
The Canadian market also depends more on commodities like oil, said Small, whereas tech companies make up a large portion of financial markets in the U.S. — and major tech names have been leading a recent rally in equities over optimism about artificial intelligence.
“That has gone a long way to produce the earnings, to produce the growth, and to give the United States a definite advantage,” said Small.
It’s not uncommon for the overnight rates between the two countries to diverge somewhat, said Gardner, but it’s not usually a significant difference.
Historically, a difference of 100 basis points, or one percentage point, has been a “comfort zone,” she said.
“If there is that window, I would say we're still comfortable with that. If it starts to get a little bit outside that, I think we might reassess.”
“I think there’s more room for divergence than most people think,” said Gardner.
For a period in the 1990s, the difference between the two rates was 250 basis points, which is “quite a large spread,” said Gardner.
During that period, however, strength in energy prices helped buoy the loonie, said Gardner.
“If energy prices continue to rise, that could be a buffer for the Canadian dollar.”
At the beginning of 2024, market watchers thought the Fed could cut its key rate six times throughout the year, even though the central bank itself was projecting three cuts. Those expectations have been significantly pared back as economic data rolled in over the past six months.
Bets are now leaning toward a first cut in September in the U.S., said Gardner, but the economic data could change that.
Small says depending on how the U.S. economy holds up as the year progresses, it’s possible the Fed won’t cut at all until 2025.
Macklem said last week that the Bank of Canada is taking its interest rate decisions “one meeting at a time.”
"If inflation continues to ease, and our confidence that inflation is headed sustainably to the two per cent target continues to increase, it is reasonable to expect further cuts to our policy interest rate," he said.
“The Bank of Canada says that they have a lot of room to diverge,” said Small, but he added it’s not clear how much room that actually is.
“At some point, if the U.S. does not start cutting ... it could present some difficulty, for sure.”
— With files from The Associated Press
This report by The Canadian Press was first published June 12, 2024.
Rosa Saba, The Canadian Press


With monetary policy at the Bank of Canada and U.S. Federal Reserve on track to diverge, experts say it could set the Canadian dollar up for volatility down the road.
With monetary policy at the Bank of Canada and U.S. Federal Reserve on track to diverge, experts say it could set the Canadian dollar up for volatility down the road.
If the Bank of Canada’s rate falls too far below the Fed’s, it could negatively affect the loonie, said Allan Small, senior investment adviser at IA Private Wealth. This would make imports from the U.S. — Canada's biggest trading partner — more expensive and put upward pressure on inflation, though he added this isn’t something that happens overnight.
“If the Bank of Canada cuts a few times and the Fed stands pat, I don't think that will be an issue,” he said.
But if the Bank of Canada keeps cutting and the Fed holds on past the first quarter of next year, “then we could start to see significant divergence.”
The Fed is widely expected to hold its key interest rate steady on Wednesday as the country’s economy has been more resilient than expected in the face of higher borrowing costs and inflation.
It’s a different story in Canada, where last week, the Bank of Canada announced its first interest rate cut in more than four years after a steep hiking cycle aimed at tamping down inflation.
At a June 5 press conference discussing the rate cut, governor Tiff Macklem said the central bank has more confidence that inflation is heading toward its two per cent target.
He acknowledged there are limits to how far the Bank of Canada can diverge from the U.S. in terms of rate policy, but he said “we’re not close to those limits.”
The Bank of Canada cut its key lending rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 4.75 per cent while the U.S. federal funds rate currently sits at 5.25 per cent to 5.50 per cent.
Canada’s economy is more sensitive to interest rates, in large part because Canadians have five-year mortgage terms, while in the U.S., terms are 30 years, said Brianne Gardner, senior wealth manager of Velocity Investment Partners at Raymond James Ltd.
This means far more Canadian homeowners have had to renew their mortgages during this period of higher rates, which has led consumers to rein in their spending.
“It’s really a tale of two economies,” said Small.
The Canadian market also depends more on commodities like oil, said Small, whereas tech companies make up a large portion of financial markets in the U.S. — and major tech names have been leading a recent rally in equities over optimism about artificial intelligence.
“That has gone a long way to produce the earnings, to produce the growth, and to give the United States a definite advantage,” said Small.
It’s not uncommon for the overnight rates between the two countries to diverge somewhat, said Gardner, but it’s not usually a significant difference.
Historically, a difference of 100 basis points, or one percentage point, has been a “comfort zone,” she said.
“If there is that window, I would say we're still comfortable with that. If it starts to get a little bit outside that, I think we might reassess.”
“I think there’s more room for divergence than most people think,” said Gardner.
For a period in the 1990s, the difference between the two rates was 250 basis points, which is “quite a large spread,” said Gardner.
During that period, however, strength in energy prices helped buoy the loonie, said Gardner.
“If energy prices continue to rise, that could be a buffer for the Canadian dollar.”
At the beginning of 2024, market watchers thought the Fed could cut its key rate six times throughout the year, even though the central bank itself was projecting three cuts. Those expectations have been significantly pared back as economic data rolled in over the past six months.
Bets are now leaning toward a first cut in September in the U.S., said Gardner, but the economic data could change that.
Small says depending on how the U.S. economy holds up as the year progresses, it’s possible the Fed won’t cut at all until 2025.
Macklem said last week that the Bank of Canada is taking its interest rate decisions “one meeting at a time.”
"If inflation continues to ease, and our confidence that inflation is headed sustainably to the two per cent target continues to increase, it is reasonable to expect further cuts to our policy interest rate," he said.
“The Bank of Canada says that they have a lot of room to diverge,” said Small, but he added it’s not clear how much room that actually is.
“At some point, if the U.S. does not start cutting ... it could present some difficulty, for sure.”
— With files from The Associated Press
This report by The Canadian Press was first published June 12, 2024.
Rosa Saba, The Canadian Press


With monetary policy at the Bank of Canada and U.S. Federal Reserve on track to diverge, experts say it could set the Canadian dollar up for volatility down the road.
With monetary policy at the Bank of Canada and U.S. Federal Reserve on track to diverge, experts say it could set the Canadian dollar up for volatility down the road.
With monetary policy at the Bank of Canada and U.S. Federal Reserve on track to diverge, experts say it could set the Canadian dollar up for volatility down the road.
If the Bank of Canada’s rate falls too far below the Fed’s, it could negatively affect the loonie, said Allan Small, senior investment adviser at IA Private Wealth. This would make imports from the U.S. — Canada's biggest trading partner — more expensive and put upward pressure on inflation, though he added this isn’t something that happens overnight.
“If the Bank of Canada cuts a few times and the Fed stands pat, I don't think that will be an issue,” he said.
But if the Bank of Canada keeps cutting and the Fed holds on past the first quarter of next year, “then we could start to see significant divergence.”
The Fed is widely expected to hold its key interest rate steady on Wednesday as the country’s economy has been more resilient than expected in the face of higher borrowing costs and inflation.
It’s a different story in Canada, where last week, the Bank of Canada announced its first interest rate cut in more than four years after a steep hiking cycle aimed at tamping down inflation.
At a June 5 press conference discussing the rate cut, governor Tiff Macklem said the central bank has more confidence that inflation is heading toward its two per cent target.
He acknowledged there are limits to how far the Bank of Canada can diverge from the U.S. in terms of rate policy, but he said “we’re not close to those limits.”
The Bank of Canada cut its key lending rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 4.75 per cent while the U.S. federal funds rate currently sits at 5.25 per cent to 5.50 per cent.
Canada’s economy is more sensitive to interest rates, in large part because Canadians have five-year mortgage terms, while in the U.S., terms are 30 years, said Brianne Gardner, senior wealth manager of Velocity Investment Partners at Raymond James Ltd.
This means far more Canadian homeowners have had to renew their mortgages during this period of higher rates, which has led consumers to rein in their spending.
“It’s really a tale of two economies,” said Small.
The Canadian market also depends more on commodities like oil, said Small, whereas tech companies make up a large portion of financial markets in the U.S. — and major tech names have been leading a recent rally in equities over optimism about artificial intelligence.
“That has gone a long way to produce the earnings, to produce the growth, and to give the United States a definite advantage,” said Small.
It’s not uncommon for the overnight rates between the two countries to diverge somewhat, said Gardner, but it’s not usually a significant difference.
Historically, a difference of 100 basis points, or one percentage point, has been a “comfort zone,” she said.
“If there is that window, I would say we're still comfortable with that. If it starts to get a little bit outside that, I think we might reassess.”
“I think there’s more room for divergence than most people think,” said Gardner.
For a period in the 1990s, the difference between the two rates was 250 basis points, which is “quite a large spread,” said Gardner.
During that period, however, strength in energy prices helped buoy the loonie, said Gardner.
“If energy prices continue to rise, that could be a buffer for the Canadian dollar.”
At the beginning of 2024, market watchers thought the Fed could cut its key rate six times throughout the year, even though the central bank itself was projecting three cuts. Those expectations have been significantly pared back as economic data rolled in over the past six months.
Bets are now leaning toward a first cut in September in the U.S., said Gardner, but the economic data could change that.
Small says depending on how the U.S. economy holds up as the year progresses, it’s possible the Fed won’t cut at all until 2025.
Macklem said last week that the Bank of Canada is taking its interest rate decisions “one meeting at a time.”
"If inflation continues to ease, and our confidence that inflation is headed sustainably to the two per cent target continues to increase, it is reasonable to expect further cuts to our policy interest rate," he said.
“The Bank of Canada says that they have a lot of room to diverge,” said Small, but he added it’s not clear how much room that actually is.
“At some point, if the U.S. does not start cutting ... it could present some difficulty, for sure.”
— With files from The Associated Press
This report by The Canadian Press was first published June 12, 2024.
Rosa Saba, The Canadian Press


With monetary policy at the Bank of Canada and U.S. Federal Reserve on track to diverge, experts say it could set the Canadian dollar up for volatility down the road.
With monetary policy at the Bank of Canada and U.S. Federal Reserve on track to diverge, experts say it could set the Canadian dollar up for volatility down the road.
If the Bank of Canada’s rate falls too far below the Fed’s, it could negatively affect the loonie, said Allan Small, senior investment adviser at IA Private Wealth. This would make imports from the U.S. — Canada's biggest trading partner — more expensive and put upward pressure on inflation, though he added this isn’t something that happens overnight.
“If the Bank of Canada cuts a few times and the Fed stands pat, I don't think that will be an issue,” he said.
But if the Bank of Canada keeps cutting and the Fed holds on past the first quarter of next year, “then we could start to see significant divergence.”
The Fed is widely expected to hold its key interest rate steady on Wednesday as the country’s economy has been more resilient than expected in the face of higher borrowing costs and inflation.
It’s a different story in Canada, where last week, the Bank of Canada announced its first interest rate cut in more than four years after a steep hiking cycle aimed at tamping down inflation.
At a June 5 press conference discussing the rate cut, governor Tiff Macklem said the central bank has more confidence that inflation is heading toward its two per cent target.
He acknowledged there are limits to how far the Bank of Canada can diverge from the U.S. in terms of rate policy, but he said “we’re not close to those limits.”
The Bank of Canada cut its key lending rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 4.75 per cent while the U.S. federal funds rate currently sits at 5.25 per cent to 5.50 per cent.
Canada’s economy is more sensitive to interest rates, in large part because Canadians have five-year mortgage terms, while in the U.S., terms are 30 years, said Brianne Gardner, senior wealth manager of Velocity Investment Partners at Raymond James Ltd.
This means far more Canadian homeowners have had to renew their mortgages during this period of higher rates, which has led consumers to rein in their spending.
“It’s really a tale of two economies,” said Small.
The Canadian market also depends more on commodities like oil, said Small, whereas tech companies make up a large portion of financial markets in the U.S. — and major tech names have been leading a recent rally in equities over optimism about artificial intelligence.
“That has gone a long way to produce the earnings, to produce the growth, and to give the United States a definite advantage,” said Small.
It’s not uncommon for the overnight rates between the two countries to diverge somewhat, said Gardner, but it’s not usually a significant difference.
Historically, a difference of 100 basis points, or one percentage point, has been a “comfort zone,” she said.
“If there is that window, I would say we're still comfortable with that. If it starts to get a little bit outside that, I think we might reassess.”
“I think there’s more room for divergence than most people think,” said Gardner.
For a period in the 1990s, the difference between the two rates was 250 basis points, which is “quite a large spread,” said Gardner.
During that period, however, strength in energy prices helped buoy the loonie, said Gardner.
“If energy prices continue to rise, that could be a buffer for the Canadian dollar.”
At the beginning of 2024, market watchers thought the Fed could cut its key rate six times throughout the year, even though the central bank itself was projecting three cuts. Those expectations have been significantly pared back as economic data rolled in over the past six months.
Bets are now leaning toward a first cut in September in the U.S., said Gardner, but the economic data could change that.
Small says depending on how the U.S. economy holds up as the year progresses, it’s possible the Fed won’t cut at all until 2025.
Macklem said last week that the Bank of Canada is taking its interest rate decisions “one meeting at a time.”
"If inflation continues to ease, and our confidence that inflation is headed sustainably to the two per cent target continues to increase, it is reasonable to expect further cuts to our policy interest rate," he said.
“The Bank of Canada says that they have a lot of room to diverge,” said Small, but he added it’s not clear how much room that actually is.
“At some point, if the U.S. does not start cutting ... it could present some difficulty, for sure.”
— With files from The Associated Press
This report by The Canadian Press was first published June 12, 2024.
Rosa Saba, The Canadian Press


With monetary policy at the Bank of Canada and U.S. Federal Reserve on track to diverge, experts say it could set the Canadian dollar up for volatility down the road.
With monetary policy at the Bank of Canada and U.S. Federal Reserve on track to diverge, experts say it could set the Canadian dollar up for volatility down the road.
If the Bank of Canada’s rate falls too far below the Fed’s, it could negatively affect the loonie, said Allan Small, senior investment adviser at IA Private Wealth. This would make imports from the U.S. — Canada's biggest trading partner — more expensive and put upward pressure on inflation, though he added this isn’t something that happens overnight.
“If the Bank of Canada cuts a few times and the Fed stands pat, I don't think that will be an issue,” he said.
But if the Bank of Canada keeps cutting and the Fed holds on past the first quarter of next year, “then we could start to see significant divergence.”
The Fed is widely expected to hold its key interest rate steady on Wednesday as the country’s economy has been more resilient than expected in the face of higher borrowing costs and inflation.
It’s a different story in Canada, where last week, the Bank of Canada announced its first interest rate cut in more than four years after a steep hiking cycle aimed at tamping down inflation.
At a June 5 press conference discussing the rate cut, governor Tiff Macklem said the central bank has more confidence that inflation is heading toward its two per cent target.
He acknowledged there are limits to how far the Bank of Canada can diverge from the U.S. in terms of rate policy, but he said “we’re not close to those limits.”
The Bank of Canada cut its key lending rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 4.75 per cent while the U.S. federal funds rate currently sits at 5.25 per cent to 5.50 per cent.
Canada’s economy is more sensitive to interest rates, in large part because Canadians have five-year mortgage terms, while in the U.S., terms are 30 years, said Brianne Gardner, senior wealth manager of Velocity Investment Partners at Raymond James Ltd.
This means far more Canadian homeowners have had to renew their mortgages during this period of higher rates, which has led consumers to rein in their spending.
“It’s really a tale of two economies,” said Small.
The Canadian market also depends more on commodities like oil, said Small, whereas tech companies make up a large portion of financial markets in the U.S. — and major tech names have been leading a recent rally in equities over optimism about artificial intelligence.
“That has gone a long way to produce the earnings, to produce the growth, and to give the United States a definite advantage,” said Small.
It’s not uncommon for the overnight rates between the two countries to diverge somewhat, said Gardner, but it’s not usually a significant difference.
Historically, a difference of 100 basis points, or one percentage point, has been a “comfort zone,” she said.
“If there is that window, I would say we're still comfortable with that. If it starts to get a little bit outside that, I think we might reassess.”
“I think there’s more room for divergence than most people think,” said Gardner.
For a period in the 1990s, the difference between the two rates was 250 basis points, which is “quite a large spread,” said Gardner.
During that period, however, strength in energy prices helped buoy the loonie, said Gardner.
“If energy prices continue to rise, that could be a buffer for the Canadian dollar.”
At the beginning of 2024, market watchers thought the Fed could cut its key rate six times throughout the year, even though the central bank itself was projecting three cuts. Those expectations have been significantly pared back as economic data rolled in over the past six months.
Bets are now leaning toward a first cut in September in the U.S., said Gardner, but the economic data could change that.
Small says depending on how the U.S. economy holds up as the year progresses, it’s possible the Fed won’t cut at all until 2025.
Macklem said last week that the Bank of Canada is taking its interest rate decisions “one meeting at a time.”
"If inflation continues to ease, and our confidence that inflation is headed sustainably to the two per cent target continues to increase, it is reasonable to expect further cuts to our policy interest rate," he said.
“The Bank of Canada says that they have a lot of room to diverge,” said Small, but he added it’s not clear how much room that actually is.
“At some point, if the U.S. does not start cutting ... it could present some difficulty, for sure.”
— With files from The Associated Press
This report by The Canadian Press was first published June 12, 2024.
Rosa Saba, The Canadian Press


With monetary policy at the Bank of Canada and U.S. Federal Reserve on track to diverge, experts say it could set the Canadian dollar up for volatility down the road.
With monetary policy at the Bank of Canada and U.S. Federal Reserve on track to diverge, experts say it could set the Canadian dollar up for volatility down the road.
If the Bank of Canada’s rate falls too far below the Fed’s, it could negatively affect the loonie, said Allan Small, senior investment adviser at IA Private Wealth. This would make imports from the U.S. — Canada's biggest trading partner — more expensive and put upward pressure on inflation, though he added this isn’t something that happens overnight.
“If the Bank of Canada cuts a few times and the Fed stands pat, I don't think that will be an issue,” he said.
But if the Bank of Canada keeps cutting and the Fed holds on past the first quarter of next year, “then we could start to see significant divergence.”
The Fed is widely expected to hold its key interest rate steady on Wednesday as the country’s economy has been more resilient than expected in the face of higher borrowing costs and inflation.
It’s a different story in Canada, where last week, the Bank of Canada announced its first interest rate cut in more than four years after a steep hiking cycle aimed at tamping down inflation.
At a June 5 press conference discussing the rate cut, governor Tiff Macklem said the central bank has more confidence that inflation is heading toward its two per cent target.
He acknowledged there are limits to how far the Bank of Canada can diverge from the U.S. in terms of rate policy, but he said “we’re not close to those limits.”
The Bank of Canada cut its key lending rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 4.75 per cent while the U.S. federal funds rate currently sits at 5.25 per cent to 5.50 per cent.
Canada’s economy is more sensitive to interest rates, in large part because Canadians have five-year mortgage terms, while in the U.S., terms are 30 years, said Brianne Gardner, senior wealth manager of Velocity Investment Partners at Raymond James Ltd.
This means far more Canadian homeowners have had to renew their mortgages during this period of higher rates, which has led consumers to rein in their spending.
“It’s really a tale of two economies,” said Small.
The Canadian market also depends more on commodities like oil, said Small, whereas tech companies make up a large portion of financial markets in the U.S. — and major tech names have been leading a recent rally in equities over optimism about artificial intelligence.
“That has gone a long way to produce the earnings, to produce the growth, and to give the United States a definite advantage,” said Small.
It’s not uncommon for the overnight rates between the two countries to diverge somewhat, said Gardner, but it’s not usually a significant difference.
Historically, a difference of 100 basis points, or one percentage point, has been a “comfort zone,” she said.
“If there is that window, I would say we're still comfortable with that. If it starts to get a little bit outside that, I think we might reassess.”
“I think there’s more room for divergence than most people think,” said Gardner.
For a period in the 1990s, the difference between the two rates was 250 basis points, which is “quite a large spread,” said Gardner.
During that period, however, strength in energy prices helped buoy the loonie, said Gardner.
“If energy prices continue to rise, that could be a buffer for the Canadian dollar.”
At the beginning of 2024, market watchers thought the Fed could cut its key rate six times throughout the year, even though the central bank itself was projecting three cuts. Those expectations have been significantly pared back as economic data rolled in over the past six months.
Bets are now leaning toward a first cut in September in the U.S., said Gardner, but the economic data could change that.
Small says depending on how the U.S. economy holds up as the year progresses, it’s possible the Fed won’t cut at all until 2025.
Macklem said last week that the Bank of Canada is taking its interest rate decisions “one meeting at a time.”
"If inflation continues to ease, and our confidence that inflation is headed sustainably to the two per cent target continues to increase, it is reasonable to expect further cuts to our policy interest rate," he said.
“The Bank of Canada says that they have a lot of room to diverge,” said Small, but he added it’s not clear how much room that actually is.
“At some point, if the U.S. does not start cutting ... it could present some difficulty, for sure.”
— With files from The Associated Press
This report by The Canadian Press was first published June 12, 2024.
Rosa Saba, The Canadian Press


With monetary policy at the Bank of Canada and U.S. Federal Reserve on track to diverge, experts say it could set the Canadian dollar up for volatility down the road.
With monetary policy at the Bank of Canada and U.S. Federal Reserve on track to diverge, experts say it could set the Canadian dollar up for volatility down the road.
If the Bank of Canada’s rate falls too far below the Fed’s, it could negatively affect the loonie, said Allan Small, senior investment adviser at IA Private Wealth. This would make imports from the U.S. — Canada's biggest trading partner — more expensive and put upward pressure on inflation, though he added this isn’t something that happens overnight.
“If the Bank of Canada cuts a few times and the Fed stands pat, I don't think that will be an issue,” he said.
But if the Bank of Canada keeps cutting and the Fed holds on past the first quarter of next year, “then we could start to see significant divergence.”
ADVERTISEMENT
The Fed is widely expected to hold its key interest rate steady on Wednesday as the country’s economy has been more resilient than expected in the face of higher borrowing costs and inflation.
It’s a different story in Canada, where last week, the Bank of Canada announced its first interest rate cut in more than four years after a steep hiking cycle aimed at tamping down inflation.
At a June 5 press conference discussing the rate cut, governor Tiff Macklem said the central bank has more confidence that inflation is heading toward its two per cent target.
He acknowledged there are limits to how far the Bank of Canada can diverge from the U.S. in terms of rate policy, but he said “we’re not close to those limits.”
The Bank of Canada cut its key lending rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 4.75 per cent while the U.S. federal funds rate currently sits at 5.25 per cent to 5.50 per cent.
Canada’s economy is more sensitive to interest rates, in large part because Canadians have five-year mortgage terms, while in the U.S., terms are 30 years, said Brianne Gardner, senior wealth manager of Velocity Investment Partners at Raymond James Ltd.
This means far more Canadian homeowners have had to renew their mortgages during this period of higher rates, which has led consumers to rein in their spending.
Story continues
“It’s really a tale of two economies,” said Small.
The Canadian market also depends more on commodities like oil, said Small, whereas tech companies make up a large portion of financial markets in the U.S. — and major tech names have been leading a recent rally in equities over optimism about artificial intelligence.
“That has gone a long way to produce the earnings, to produce the growth, and to give the United States a definite advantage,” said Small.
It’s not uncommon for the overnight rates between the two countries to diverge somewhat, said Gardner, but it’s not usually a significant difference.
Historically, a difference of 100 basis points, or one percentage point, has been a “comfort zone,” she said.
“If there is that window, I would say we're still comfortable with that. If it starts to get a little bit outside that, I think we might reassess.”
“I think there’s more room for divergence than most people think,” said Gardner.
For a period in the 1990s, the difference between the two rates was 250 basis points, which is “quite a large spread,” said Gardner.
During that period, however, strength in energy prices helped buoy the loonie, said Gardner.
“If energy prices continue to rise, that could be a buffer for the Canadian dollar.”
At the beginning of 2024, market watchers thought the Fed could cut its key rate six times throughout the year, even though the central bank itself was projecting three cuts. Those expectations have been significantly pared back as economic data rolled in over the past six months.
Bets are now leaning toward a first cut in September in the U.S., said Gardner, but the economic data could change that.
Small says depending on how the U.S. economy holds up as the year progresses, it’s possible the Fed won’t cut at all until 2025.
Macklem said last week that the Bank of Canada is taking its interest rate decisions “one meeting at a time.”
"If inflation continues to ease, and our confidence that inflation is headed sustainably to the two per cent target continues to increase, it is reasonable to expect further cuts to our policy interest rate," he said.
“The Bank of Canada says that they have a lot of room to diverge,” said Small, but he added it’s not clear how much room that actually is.
“At some point, if the U.S. does not start cutting ... it could present some difficulty, for sure.”
— With files from The Associated Press
This report by The Canadian Press was first published June 12, 2024.
Rosa Saba, The Canadian Press


With monetary policy at the Bank of Canada and U.S. Federal Reserve on track to diverge, experts say it could set the Canadian dollar up for volatility down the road.
With monetary policy at the Bank of Canada and U.S. Federal Reserve on track to diverge, experts say it could set the Canadian dollar up for volatility down the road.
With monetary policy at the Bank of Canada and U.S. Federal Reserve on track to diverge, experts say it could set the Canadian dollar up for volatility down the road.
If the Bank of Canada’s rate falls too far below the Fed’s, it could negatively affect the loonie, said Allan Small, senior investment adviser at IA Private Wealth. This would make imports from the U.S. — Canada's biggest trading partner — more expensive and put upward pressure on inflation, though he added this isn’t something that happens overnight.
“If the Bank of Canada cuts a few times and the Fed stands pat, I don't think that will be an issue,” he said.
But if the Bank of Canada keeps cutting and the Fed holds on past the first quarter of next year, “then we could start to see significant divergence.”
The Fed is widely expected to hold its key interest rate steady on Wednesday as the country’s economy has been more resilient than expected in the face of higher borrowing costs and inflation.
It’s a different story in Canada, where last week, the Bank of Canada announced its first interest rate cut in more than four years after a steep hiking cycle aimed at tamping down inflation.
At a June 5 press conference discussing the rate cut, governor Tiff Macklem said the central bank has more confidence that inflation is heading toward its two per cent target.
He acknowledged there are limits to how far the Bank of Canada can diverge from the U.S. in terms of rate policy, but he said “we’re not close to those limits.”
The Bank of Canada cut its key lending rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 4.75 per cent while the U.S. federal funds rate currently sits at 5.25 per cent to 5.50 per cent.
Canada’s economy is more sensitive to interest rates, in large part because Canadians have five-year mortgage terms, while in the U.S., terms are 30 years, said Brianne Gardner, senior wealth manager of Velocity Investment Partners at Raymond James Ltd.
This means far more Canadian homeowners have had to renew their mortgages during this period of higher rates, which has led consumers to rein in their spending.
“It’s really a tale of two economies,” said Small.
The Canadian market also depends more on commodities like oil, said Small, whereas tech companies make up a large portion of financial markets in the U.S. — and major tech names have been leading a recent rally in equities over optimism about artificial intelligence.
“That has gone a long way to produce the earnings, to produce the growth, and to give the United States a definite advantage,” said Small.
It’s not uncommon for the overnight rates between the two countries to diverge somewhat, said Gardner, but it’s not usually a significant difference.
Historically, a difference of 100 basis points, or one percentage point, has been a “comfort zone,” she said.
“If there is that window, I would say we're still comfortable with that. If it starts to get a little bit outside that, I think we might reassess.”
“I think there’s more room for divergence than most people think,” said Gardner.
For a period in the 1990s, the difference between the two rates was 250 basis points, which is “quite a large spread,” said Gardner.
During that period, however, strength in energy prices helped buoy the loonie, said Gardner.
“If energy prices continue to rise, that could be a buffer for the Canadian dollar.”
At the beginning of 2024, market watchers thought the Fed could cut its key rate six times throughout the year, even though the central bank itself was projecting three cuts. Those expectations have been significantly pared back as economic data rolled in over the past six months.
Bets are now leaning toward a first cut in September in the U.S., said Gardner, but the economic data could change that.
Small says depending on how the U.S. economy holds up as the year progresses, it’s possible the Fed won’t cut at all until 2025.
Macklem said last week that the Bank of Canada is taking its interest rate decisions “one meeting at a time.”
"If inflation continues to ease, and our confidence that inflation is headed sustainably to the two per cent target continues to increase, it is reasonable to expect further cuts to our policy interest rate," he said.
“The Bank of Canada says that they have a lot of room to diverge,” said Small, but he added it’s not clear how much room that actually is.
“At some point, if the U.S. does not start cutting ... it could present some difficulty, for sure.”
— With files from The Associated Press
This report by The Canadian Press was first published June 12, 2024.
Rosa Saba, The Canadian Press


