President Joe Biden has a lot on his plate right now. But he'll soon need to make an important decision about the future of the Federal Reserve — a choice that will help shape his administration's economic policy in the coming years.
New York (CNN Business) President Joe Biden has a lot on his plate right now. But he'll soon need to make an important decision about the future of the Federal Reserve — a choice that will help shape his administration's economic policy in the coming years.
It should seemingly be an easy decision for Biden to renominate Powell. But there's also a case to be made for Biden to follow the lead of his immediate predecessor and go with his own man or woman for Fed chair
On the "keep Powell" side, the central bank chief has won praise from Wall Street and economists for how the Fed quickly launched new lending programs and bond purchases last year to help prevent the economy from plunging into an even deeper recession due to Covid-19.
And there's precedent for Biden to stick with Powell so he can continue to manage the central bank's response to this economic crisis: After all, Biden's former boss, President Barack Obama, did exactly that when he re-nominated Ben Bernanke for a second term as Fed chair during the aftermath of the Great Recession.
JUST WATCHED Powell: We want to see 'substantial progress' in the labor market Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Powell: We want to see 'substantial progress' in the labor market 03:33
"I'm not sure Biden wants to change horses midstream. There is a nasty history of new Fed chairs getting tested early in their first term and I don't think Biden wants to court that," said Steve Sosnick, chief strategist with Interactive Brokers. "I also don't think Biden is unhappy with Powell. You can't argue with what Powell has done for the economy overall, not just the stock market."
Still, it's possible Biden will choose to put his own stamp on the Fed. President Donald Trump chose not to renominate Bernanke's successor, Janet Yellen, instead going with Powell. (Yellen is now Biden's Treasury secretary.)
If Biden does want to make a change, he has plenty of options.
A new Fed chair could further increase diversity in DC
Wall Street would probably be on board with current Fed governor Lael Brainard , former Fed vice chair and current TIAA CEO Roger Ferguson or Atlanta Fed chief Raphael Bostic — all of whom had been rumored as potential picks for Treasury secretary.
And each one of them could make history if Biden tapped them to lead the Fed.
Brainard would be only the second woman (after Yellen) to be Fed chair and the nomination would send a strong message if Biden chose to have women in two of Washington's most powerful economic roles. And either Ferguson, who is set to soon retire from TIAA, or Bostic, would be the first Black chair in the Fed's more than 100-year history.
Sosnick told CNN Business that there is "no need for change for change's sake" at the Fed. Many other market observers believe that Powell will get a second term — provided he wants it.
But if not, investors would likely be comfortable with Brainard, Ferguson or Bostic. Strategists say none of them would be likely to change Powell's policies that dramatically and each would likely urge the Fed to keep interest rates near zero for the foreseeable future.
Certainly none of the trio is poised to be the second coming of the late Paul Volcker, the inflation-fighting Fed chair from the 1980s (and predecessor to Alan Greenspan) who raised rates numerous times during his tenure.
"There is nobody that Biden would pick who would operate the Fed much differently than Powell," said Tom Graff, head of fixed income at Brown Advisory.
And if the economy continues to recover, then it's only logical for Powell to get one more term as Fed chair.
"The pandemic has altered the calculus. As long as the Fed continues to support Biden's economic policies with low interest rates and higher asset purchases, Biden will be comfortable with Powell at the Fed," said Michael Arone, chief investment strategist at State Street Global Advisors.
'Path of least resistance' for economy and market
Arone added that replacing Powell makes sense only if the economy drastically starts to cool off, which could make Wall Street more receptive to a new Fed chair.
"Biden has to think about how disruptive a change would be to the markets and economy" Arone said. "Powell is the path of least resistance."
But if the recovery stalls out, "Powell could be the scapegoat and it would be an easy change to name Brainard or Ferguson, which would also fit into the broader Biden diversity agenda," Arone said.
The clock on Biden's Fed decision is starting to tick. For context, President Obama announced in August of his first term that he would renominate Bernanke. President Trump nominated Powell in November 2017. So Biden will have to make a choice in the coming months.
The White House had no comment for CNN when asked about whether Biden has made any decision regarding Powell.
Powell has also repeatedly declined to discuss his future when asked about it, and he is likely to do so again when he holds a press conference later Wednesday to discuss monetary policy.
Even if Powell sticks around, experts say Brainard, Ferguson or Bostic may not be warming the bench for long. If Biden is re-elected in 2024 (or if Vice President Kamala Harris runs and wins) any of the three still make sense as a Fed chair to replace Powell in 2026.


The Dow and Nasdaq indexes fell on Wednesday as Amgen and Microsoft weighed, while investors focused on a Federal Reserve meeting for updates on monetary policy and waited for another batch of earnings from big technology firms.
(Reuters) - The Dow and Nasdaq indexes fell on Wednesday as Amgen and Microsoft weighed, while investors focused on a Federal Reserve meeting for updates on monetary policy and waited for another batch of earnings from big technology firms.
FILE PHOTO: A man walks by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York Building in New York City, U.S., April 26, 2021. REUTERS/Shannon Stapleton
The U.S. central bank’s policy statement is expected to largely follow the mold established in December, when the Fed said it would not change monetary policy until there was “substantial further progress” in meeting its maximum employment and 2% inflation goals. The statement is due at 2 p.m. EDT.
“Investors are obviously looking for a continuation of the policy, which is very accommodative,” said Andre Bakhos, managing director at New Vines Capital LLC, New Jersey.
“They don’t want to hear, ‘We are going to raise rates’. If something goes wrong, investors want to know the Fed will be there.”
The S&P 500 touched an all-time high earlier in the session, powered by shares of Google parent Alphabet Inc, which jumped 3.7% after reporting a record profit for the second consecutive quarter and announcing a $50 billion share buyback.
Both Alphabet and the S&P 500 communication services sector, which houses the company, also hit record highs.
Market participants are now prepping for results of Apple Inc and Facebook Inc after markets close.
Facebook Inc is expected to report a rise in first-quarter revenue, while Apple Inc is expected to post a more than 32% jump in second-quarter revenue. Shares of Facebook rose 1.4%, while Apple dipped 0.2%.
At 12:08 p.m. ET the Dow Jones Industrial Average was down 117.71 points, or 0.35%, at 33,867.22, the S&P 500 was up 1.79 points, or 0.04%, at 4,188.51 and the Nasdaq Composite was down 32.39 points, or 0.23%, at 14,057.83.
The tech-heavy Nasdaq on Monday completed a full recovery from its 11% correction that began in February, largely supported by a rise in mega-cap stocks and ebbing inflation fears.
Microsoft Corp met quarterly sales expectations and beat profit estimates, but its shares fell 3.3% and pressured the Nasdaq due to skepticism about one-off benefits included in the results and high hopes after a year-long rally.
Biotech Amgen Inc’s 7.5% decline weighed on the Dow after it said its first-quarter sales and profit fell due to a 7% drop in its net drug prices and a hit from the COVID-19 pandemic.
Boeing Co fell 3.4% after posting a wider-than-expected quarterly loss and pausing 737 MAX deliveries over an electrical issue that has partly re-grounded the fleet.
Overall earnings for S&P 500 companies in the first quarter are expected to jump 39.2% from a year earlier, according to Refinitiv IBES data.
U.S. President Joe Biden is expected to unveil a sweeping $1.8 trillion package for families and education in his first joint speech to Congress, senior White House officials say.
Advancing issues outnumbered decliners by a 1.24-to-1 ratio on the NYSE. Declining issues outnumbered advancers for a 1.06-to-1 ratio on the Nasdaq.
The S&P index recorded 71 new 52-week highs and no new low, while the Nasdaq recorded 87 new highs and 18 new lows.


London's FTSE 100 climbed on Wednesday, lifted by energy shares and a slew of upbeat earnings updates from companies including Lloyds Banking Group and WPP as investors awaited the U.S. Federal Reserve's policy statement.
(Reuters) -London’s FTSE 100 climbed on Wednesday, lifted by energy shares and a slew of upbeat earnings updates from companies including Lloyds Banking Group and WPP as investors awaited the U.S. Federal Reserve’s policy statement.
Slideshow ( 2 images )
The blue-chip index rose 0.3%, with oil heavyweights BP Plc and Royal Dutch Shell Plc providing the biggest boost as oil prices firmed. [O/R]
WPP rose 2.8% after the world’s biggest advertising company said its underlying net sales returned to growth as clients started to spend to prepare for the global economic recovery.
Lloyds Banking Group added 3.5% after Britain’s biggest domestic bank reported upbeat profit for the first three months of the year.
The wider banking index added 1.4%, rising for the fifth straight session with Barclays and Natwest Group rising ahead of their earnings reports this week.
Worlds stocks neared record highs as focused shifted to the Fed’s statement which is expected to reiterate the U.S. central bank’s pledge of monetary support for some time while awaiting results from heavyweights Apple Inc and Facebook Inc.
“Powell will need to continue walking the fine line between sounding optimistic whilst reining in expectations,” said Fiona Cincotta, senior financial markets analyst at City Index in London.
The FTSE 100 has gained about 8% year-to-date on optimism that speedy COVID-19 vaccinations and constant policy support from the government would drive a stronger economic recovery.
The domestically focused mid-cap FTSE 250 index ended nearly flat.
Reckitt Benckiser Group dropped about 4% as a weak flu season saw fewer people reach for cold remedies and declining birth rates hit sales of baby formula products. Still, the company posted better-than-expected quarterly sales.


European stocks ended flat on Wednesday as optimism over a swathe of positive bank earnings was offset by caution setting in before the U.S. Federal Reserve's policy decision.
(Reuters) -European stocks ended flat on Wednesday as optimism over a swathe of positive bank earnings was offset by caution setting in before the U.S. Federal Reserve’s policy decision.
The German share price index DAX graph is pictured at the stock exchange in Frankfurt, Germany, April 27, 2021. REUTERS/Staff
The pan-European STOXX 600 index ended largely unchanged, with bank stocks .SX7P leading gains among the regional sectors. The subindex ended 1.5% higher.
Deutsche Bank jumped 10.7% to the top of the STOXX 600, as strength at its investment bank helped the German lender post a better-than-expected first-quarter net profit.
Spanish bank Santander rose 2.7% after it beat first-quarter forecasts with its profit, while not adding to provisions for the pandemic and booking record U.S. earnings.
Lloyds Banking Group also rose 3.5% after reporting a better-than-expected profit, while Swedish bank SEB marked small gains on a profit beat.
“At a market level, Europe has performed strongly year-to-date and it’s clear that there has been an anticipation that the recovery will be quite sharp and strong,” said Tom Dorner, investment director for European equities at Aberdeen Standard Investments. “You’re still seeing a rotation in the market in favour of the more cyclical names like banks and autos.”
The buying into cyclicals has seen travel and leisure, automobiles, basic resources and banks among the top performing euro zone sectors this year.
However, investors stayed away from making big bets on Wednesday, ahead of the U.S. central bank’s policy announcement due at 1800 GMT. Policymakers are widely expected to reaffirm their stance to keep monetary policy loose until enough economic progress has been made.
Earnings at European companies in the first quarter of 2021 are expected to surge 71.3% from a year earlier, according to Refinitiv IBES data, up from last week’s forecast of a 61.2% jump.
The world’s biggest advertising company WPP jumped 4.3% to the top of the FTSE 100 on returning to underlying growth in the first quarter, as clients launched new products and brands.
German food delivery company Delivery Hero surged 9.4%, after it forecast revenues to more than double in 2021.
Among decliners, Lysol maker Reckitt Benckiser Group fell 3.9% , even as the company backed its full-year outlook.
Italian energy service group Saipem fell 5.1% after it missed quarterly profit estimates and flagged uncertainty over a Mozambique project.
Swedish communications provider Sinch AB tumbled 10.8% to the bottom of the STOXX 600 despite a rise in first-quarter profit, as it said that some of its sectors were still under pressure from the pandemic.


European stocks ended flat on Wednesday as optimism over a swathe of positive bank earnings was offset by caution setting in before the U.S. Federal Reserve's policy decision.
(Reuters) -European stocks ended flat on Wednesday as optimism over a swathe of positive bank earnings was offset by caution setting in before the U.S. Federal Reserve’s policy decision.
The German share price index DAX graph is pictured at the stock exchange in Frankfurt, Germany, April 27, 2021. REUTERS/Staff
The pan-European STOXX 600 index ended largely unchanged, with bank stocks .SX7P leading gains among the regional sectors. The subindex ended 1.5% higher.
Deutsche Bank jumped 10.7% to the top of the STOXX 600, as strength at its investment bank helped the German lender post a better-than-expected first-quarter net profit.
Spanish bank Santander rose 2.7% after it beat first-quarter forecasts with its profit, while not adding to provisions for the pandemic and booking record U.S. earnings.
Lloyds Banking Group also rose 3.5% after reporting a better-than-expected profit, while Swedish bank SEB marked small gains on a profit beat.
“At a market level, Europe has performed strongly year-to-date and it’s clear that there has been an anticipation that the recovery will be quite sharp and strong,” said Tom Dorner, investment director for European equities at Aberdeen Standard Investments. “You’re still seeing a rotation in the market in favour of the more cyclical names like banks and autos.”
The buying into cyclicals has seen travel and leisure, automobiles, basic resources and banks among the top performing euro zone sectors this year.
However, investors stayed away from making big bets on Wednesday, ahead of the U.S. central bank’s policy announcement due at 1800 GMT. Policymakers are widely expected to reaffirm their stance to keep monetary policy loose until enough economic progress has been made.
Earnings at European companies in the first quarter of 2021 are expected to surge 71.3% from a year earlier, according to Refinitiv IBES data, up from last week’s forecast of a 61.2% jump.
The world’s biggest advertising company WPP jumped 4.3% to the top of the FTSE 100 on returning to underlying growth in the first quarter, as clients launched new products and brands.
German food delivery company Delivery Hero surged 9.4%, after it forecast revenues to more than double in 2021.
Among decliners, Lysol maker Reckitt Benckiser Group fell 3.9% , even as the company backed its full-year outlook.
Italian energy service group Saipem fell 5.1% after it missed quarterly profit estimates and flagged uncertainty over a Mozambique project.
Swedish communications provider Sinch AB tumbled 10.8% to the bottom of the STOXX 600 despite a rise in first-quarter profit, as it said that some of its sectors were still under pressure from the pandemic.


A surge in shares of Alphabet following strong earnings drove the S&P 500 to a record high and bolstered the Nasdaq index, while investors hoped that the Federal Reserve would stick to its promise of keeping monetary policy loose.
(Reuters) - A surge in shares of Alphabet following strong earnings drove the S&P 500 to a record high and bolstered the Nasdaq index, while investors hoped that the Federal Reserve would stick to its promise of keeping monetary policy loose.
FILE PHOTO: A man walks by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York Building in New York City, U.S., April 26, 2021. REUTERS/Shannon Stapleton
Google parent Alphabet Inc jumped 5.4% on reporting a record profit for the second consecutive quarter and announcing a $50 billion share buyback.
The S&P 500 communication services sector, which houses Alphabet, added 2.3% and led gains among the 11 major S&P 500 sectors.
Market participants are also prepping for results of Apple Inc and Facebook Inc after markets close.
Facebook Inc is expected to report a rise in first-quarter revenue, while Apple Inc is expected to post a more than 32% jump in second-quarter revenue. Shares of Facebook rose 1.4%, while Apple dipped 0.2%.
Meanwhile, the U.S. central bank’s policy statement is expected to largely follow the mold established in December, when the Fed said it would not change monetary policy until there had been “substantial further progress” in meeting its maximum employment and 2% inflation goals. The statement is due at 2 p.m. EDT.
“Investors will get what they are expecting, which is continued super dovish comments from the Fed,” said Christopher Grisanti, chief equity strategist at MAI Capital Management in Cleveland.
“If there is any change from that stand, it’ll be a big deal for the markets, but that is unlikely.”
At 10:10 a.m. ET the Dow Jones Industrial Average was down 148.57 points, or 0.44%, at 33,836.36, the S&P 500 was up 8.11 points, or 0.19%, at 4,194.83 and the Nasdaq Composite was up 18.24 points, or 0.13%, at 14,108.45.
The tech-heavy Nasdaq on Monday completed a full recovery from its 11% correction that began in February, largely supported by a rise in mega-cap stocks and ebbing inflation fears.
Microsoft Corp met quarterly sales expectations and beat profit estimates, but its shares fell 2.9% due to skepticism about one-off benefits included in the results and high hopes after a year-long rally.
Biotech Amgen Inc’s 7.6% decline weighed on the Dow after it said its first-quarter sales and profit fell due to a 7% drop in its net drug prices and a hit from the COVID-19 pandemic.
Boeing Co fell 3% after posting a wider-than-expected quarterly loss, even as it reported an improvement in aircraft deliveries as its 737 MAX jets come back on line.
Overall earnings for S&P 500 companies in the first quarter are expected to jump 35% from a year earlier, which would be the biggest surge since the fourth quarter of 2010, according to Refinitiv IBES data.
U.S. President Joe Biden is expected to unveil a sweeping $1.8 trillion package for families and education in his first joint speech to Congress, senior White House officials say.
Advancing issues outnumbered decliners by a 1.12-to-1 ratio on the NYSE. Declining issues outnumbered advancers for a 1.19-to-1 ratio on the Nasdaq. The S&P index recorded 55 new 52-week highs and no new low, while the Nasdaq recorded 61 new highs and nine new lows.


Financial firms swimming in reserves are parking more of their cash overnight at the New York Federal Reserve's reverse repo facility.
FILE PHOTO: People walk wearing masks outside The Federal Reserve Bank of New York in New York City, U.S., March 18, 2020. REUTERS/Lucas Jackson
(Reuters) - Financial firms swimming in reserves are parking more of their cash overnight at the New York Federal Reserve’s reverse repo facility.
Usage of the reverse repurchase facility, which gives firms somewhere to temporarily place their cash in exchange for a small return, surged in recent days. Firms stored $142 billion overnight with the facility on Tuesday and $101 billion on Monday, the largest operations since roughly a year ago.
The higher demand for the facility, which typically sees little take-up, is increasing speculation that the Fed may need to make some technical adjustments soon to keep short-term rates from falling too low.
“The problem of excess front-end cash is only going to worsen over the next few months,” John Canavan, lead analyst for Oxford Economics wrote in a research note on Wednesday.
Short-term interest rates are drifting lower in part because of the Fed’s $120 billion in monthly bond purchases, a surge in bank reserves and a drop in the government’s cash stockpile as it pays out pandemic relief payments and tax refunds.
The Fed’s options include adjusting the Fed’s overnight reverse repo rate for non-banks, which is currently at 0%, or raising the interest it pays banks for excess reserves (IOER) from 0.10%.
But some analysts, including Canavan, say the Fed may not necessarily act at this week’s meeting. The central bank has historically only made such technical adjustments, when the effective federal funds rate is within 5 basis points of the top or bottom of the target range, which is currently 0-0.25%. The Fed funds rate has held steady at 0.07% since mid-February, except for a temporary dip to 0.06% at the end of March.
With the tool working “for the time being,” the Fed could also choose to keep such adjustments separate from monetary policy decisions, Ian Lyngen and Ben Jeffery of BMO Capital Markets wrote in an emailed note on Tuesday.


Financial firms swimming in reserves are parking more of their cash overnight at the New York Federal Reserve's reverse repo facility.
FILE PHOTO: People walk wearing masks outside The Federal Reserve Bank of New York in New York City, U.S., March 18, 2020. REUTERS/Lucas Jackson
(Reuters) - Financial firms swimming in reserves are parking more of their cash overnight at the New York Federal Reserve’s reverse repo facility.
Usage of the reverse repurchase facility, which gives firms somewhere to temporarily place their cash in exchange for a small return, surged in recent days. Firms stored $142 billion overnight with the facility on Tuesday and $101 billion on Monday, the largest operations since roughly a year ago.
The higher demand for the facility, which typically sees little take-up, is increasing speculation that the Fed may need to make some technical adjustments soon to keep short-term rates from falling too low.
“The problem of excess front-end cash is only going to worsen over the next few months,” John Canavan, lead analyst for Oxford Economics wrote in a research note on Wednesday.
Short-term interest rates are drifting lower in part because of the Fed’s $120 billion in monthly bond purchases, a surge in bank reserves and a drop in the government’s cash stockpile as it pays out pandemic relief payments and tax refunds.
The Fed’s options include adjusting the Fed’s overnight reverse repo rate for non-banks, which is currently at 0%, or raising the interest it pays banks for excess reserves (IOER) from 0.10%.
But some analysts, including Canavan, say the Fed may not necessarily act at this week’s meeting. The central bank has historically only made such technical adjustments, when the effective federal funds rate is within 5 basis points of the top or bottom of the target range, which is currently 0-0.25%. The Fed funds rate has held steady at 0.07% since mid-February, except for a temporary dip to 0.06% at the end of March.
With the tool working “for the time being,” the Fed could also choose to keep such adjustments separate from monetary policy decisions, Ian Lyngen and Ben Jeffery of BMO Capital Markets wrote in an emailed note on Tuesday.


German 10-year bond yields rose to their highest since late February on Wednesday, catching up with a jump in Treasury yields ahead of the close of the U.S. Federal Reserve's policy meeting later in the session.
German 10-year bond yields rose to their highest since late February on Wednesday, catching up with a jump in Treasury yields ahead of the close of the U.S. Federal Reserve's policy meeting later in the session. No major policy changes are expected at the meeting, but investors are awaiting Fed Chairman Jerome Powell's comments for any signs that the bank may start talking about tapering its bond buying. The Fed has promised it will continue purchases at their current pace until "substantial further progress" is made in an economic recovery from the pandemic.
Benchmark Treasury yields have stabilized in April after suffering their worst quarterly performance since 2009, when expectations that a vast U.S. fiscal stimulus would reignite economic growth and inflation pushed yields, which move inversely with prices, sharply higher. But the stabilization has started to lose steam this week, with 10-year yields up 8 basis points over the last two sessions.
German bonds, which are closely correlated with Treasuries, caught up with the Treasury sell-off on Wednesday. Germany's 10-year yield, the benchmark for the euro area, was up 2 basis points to -0.23%, after rising to its highest since late February at -0.203%.
Italy's 10-year bond yield broke another seven-month high at 0.864%, though the sell-off in German bonds helped bring down the closely watched risk premium Italy pays on top of Germany down to around 106 bps. It had touched 108 bps on Tuesday, the highest since early February. Jens Peter Sorensen, chief analyst at Danske Bank, said the negative open to the European bond market was expected, given Treasury yields mostly rose following the European close on Tuesday. Bond yields rise when prices fall.
"The upward move in U.S. Treasury yields is driven by the expectations for a more upbeat Federal Reserve committee as well as the solid rise in the consumer confidence," Sorensen said, referring to U.S. data for April that jumped to a 14-month high on Tuesday. In contrast, German consumer morale deteriorated unexpectedly heading into May, given rising COVID-19 infections and a re-tightening of restrictions in many areas of Europe's largest economy.
In the primary market, Germany raised 2.132 billion euros from the re-opening of a 15-year bond.
(This story has not been edited by Devdiscourse staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)


A surge in shares of Alphabet following strong earnings drove the S&P 500 to a record high and bolstered the Nasdaq index, while investors hoped that the Federal Reserve would stick to its promise of keeping monetary policy loose.
A surge in shares of Alphabet following strong earnings drove the S&P 500 to a record high and bolstered the Nasdaq index, while investors hoped that the Federal Reserve would stick to its promise of keeping monetary policy loose. Google parent Alphabet Inc jumped 5.4% on reporting a record profit for the second consecutive quarter and announcing a $50 billion share buyback.
The S&P 500 communication services sector, which houses Alphabet, added 2.3% and led gains among the 11 major S&P 500 sectors. Market participants are also prepping for results of Apple Inc and Facebook Inc after markets close.
Facebook Inc is expected to report a rise in first-quarter revenue, while Apple Inc is expected to post a more than 32% jump in second-quarter revenue. Shares of Facebook rose 1.4%, while Apple dipped 0.2%. Meanwhile, the U.S. central bank's policy statement is expected to largely follow the mold established in December, when the Fed said it would not change monetary policy until there had been "substantial further progress" in meeting its maximum employment and 2% inflation goals. The statement is due at 2 p.m. EDT.
"Investors will get what they are expecting, which is continued super dovish comments from the Fed," said Christopher Grisanti, chief equity strategist at MAI Capital Management in Cleveland. "If there is any change from that stand, it'll be a big deal for the markets, but that is unlikely."
At 10:10 a.m. ET the Dow Jones Industrial Average was down 148.57 points, or 0.44%, at 33,836.36, the S&P 500 was up 8.11 points, or 0.19%, at 4,194.83 and the Nasdaq Composite was up 18.24 points, or 0.13%, at 14,108.45. The tech-heavy Nasdaq on Monday completed a full recovery from its 11% correction that began in February, largely supported by a rise in mega-cap stocks and ebbing inflation fears.
Microsoft Corp met quarterly sales expectations and beat profit estimates, but its shares fell 2.9% due to skepticism about one-off benefits included in the results and high hopes after a year-long rally. Biotech Amgen Inc's 7.6% decline weighed on the Dow after it said its first-quarter sales and profit fell due to a 7% drop in its net drug prices and a hit from the COVID-19 pandemic.
Boeing Co fell 3% after posting a wider-than-expected quarterly loss, even as it reported an improvement in aircraft deliveries as its 737 MAX jets come back on line. Overall earnings for S&P 500 companies in the first quarter are expected to jump 35% from a year earlier, which would be the biggest surge since the fourth quarter of 2010, according to Refinitiv IBES data.
U.S. President Joe Biden is expected to unveil a sweeping $1.8 trillion package for families and education in his first joint speech to Congress, senior White House officials say. Advancing issues outnumbered decliners by a 1.12-to-1 ratio on the NYSE. Declining issues outnumbered advancers for a 1.19-to-1 ratio on the Nasdaq.
The S&P index recorded 55 new 52-week highs and no new low, while the Nasdaq recorded 61 new highs and nine new lows.
(This story has not been edited by Devdiscourse staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)


Canada's main stock index climbed on Wednesday, supported by higher oil prices and upbeat February retail sales data, even as investors awaited the outcome of the U.S. Federal Reserve policy meet.
(Updates prices, adds sectors)
April 28 (Reuters) - Canada’s main stock index climbed on Wednesday, supported by higher oil prices and upbeat February retail sales data, even as investors awaited the outcome of the U.S. Federal Reserve policy meet.
Most Fed watchers expect Chairman Jerome Powell to repeat the bank’s recent message that its low interest rates and support programmes will remain in place for a long time.
* At 9:40 a.m. ET (13:40 GMT), the Toronto Stock Exchange’s S&P/TSX composite index was up 101.28 points, or 0.53%, at 19,276.37.
* Shopify Inc, reported a 110% jump in first-quarter revenue, as its e-commerce platform profited from the past year’s COVID-19 driven boom in online selling.
* Its shares gained 4%, the most on the TSX followed by Uranium miner Denison Mines Corp, which rose 3.2%.
* Canadian retail sales rose 4.8% in February to C$55.08 billion ($44.45 billion), on higher sales at motor vehicle and parts dealers, as well as gasoline stations.
* Seven of the index’s 11 major sectors were higher, led by the information technology sector.
* The energy sector climbed 1.6% as oil prices gained more than 1% on expectations that rising fuel demand will offset concerns about the impact of a surge in India’s coronavirus cases and higher U.S. crude inventories.
* The financials sector gained 0.5%. The industrials sector rose 0.2%.
* The materials sector, which includes precious and base metals miners and fertilizer companies, lost 0.3% as gold futures fell 0.7% to $1,765.2 an ounce.
* On the TSX, 118 issues were higher, while 103 issues declined for a 1.15-to-1 ratio favouring gainers, with 14.09 million shares traded.
* Cancer drug developer Trillium Therapeutics fell 6.8%, the most on the TSX, while the second biggest decliner was clean fuel systems maker Westport Fuel Systems, down 3.2%.
* The most heavily traded shares by volume were Tetra Bio Pharma, up 8.2%; Nevada Copper, down 2.2%, and Roxgold Inc, down 1.7%.
* The TSX posted 15 new 52-week highs and no new lows.
* Across all Canadian issues there were 58 new 52-week highs and 8 new lows, with total volume of 31.48 million shares. (Reporting by Devik Jain in Bengaluru, Editing by Sherry Jacob-Phillips and Shailesh Kuber)


U.S. Treasury yields gave back earlier gains on Wednesday before the Federal Reserve is due to conclude its two-day meeting, with investors focused on whether the U.S. central bank will give any hints towards removing its unprecedented accommodation as the American economy...
(Adds quotes, details on Fed, Biden calendar, economic outlook) By Karen Brettell NEW YORK, April 28 (Reuters) - U.S. Treasury yields gave back earlier gains on Wednesday before the Federal Reserve is due to conclude its two-day meeting, with investors focused on whether the U.S. central bank will give any hints towards removing its unprecedented accommodation as the American economy improves. Business reopenings from COVID-19-related shutdowns have accelerated this month, and investors are also pricing for higher inflation as fiscal spending increases. “With the reopening process, it seems to have hit a higher gear in April,” said Tom Simons, a money market economist at Jefferies in New York. Investors will be watching to see whether the Fed indicates that it may taper its bond purchases as the economy bounces back, though the Fed is viewed as unlikely to give any firm signals that tightening is near. “There has to be an acknowledgement that its somewhere out there on the timeline, but I think that’s about as far as we’re going to go," Simons said. "It’s more likely at the next meeting we get something more concrete on that front. “It’s going to be more or less a tightrope walk trying to acknowledge what’s gone on in the economy over the inter-meeting period, which has pretty much all been positive, while also not really saying that the Fed is any closer to pulling back on accommodation,” he added. Benchmark 10-year Treasury yields have pulled back from one-year highs of 1.776% reached last month, and have been trading at the bottom end of their recent range before rising this week. The 10-year yields were last little changed on the day at 1.627%, after earlier rising to 1.652%. Inflation expectations, meanwhile, hit eight-year highs, with breakeven rates on 10-year Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities pricing in average annual inflation of 2.43% for the next decade. Gross domestic product data on Thursday is expected to show strong growth in the first quarter, while next week’s employment data for April should also show an improving labor market. U.S. President Joe Biden will address Congress on Wednesday with his plans to spend $1.5 trillion on childcare and college education and raise taxes on wealthy Americans to pay for it. That is on top of a $2 trillion jobs-and-infrastructure plan paid for by raising taxes on U.S. companies. Market participants will also watch to see whether the U.S. central bank raises the interest it pays on excess reserves (IOER) and overnight reverse repurchase agreements as borrowing rates in repo intermittently trade negative and short-term bill yields approach zero. April 28 Wednesday 9:31AM New York / 1331 GMT Price Current Net Yield % Change (bps) Three-month bills 0.02 0.0203 0.005 Six-month bills 0.0375 0.038 0.003 Two-year note 99-230/256 0.1759 -0.004 Three-year note 100-16/256 0.3538 -0.002 Five-year note 99-98/256 0.8764 -0.002 Seven-year note 99-132/256 1.3227 0.002 10-year note 95-120/256 1.6271 0.005 20-year bond 95-28/256 2.1804 0.000 30-year bond 90-252/256 2.2943 0.001 DOLLAR SWAP SPREADS Last (bps) Net Change (bps) U.S. 2-year dollar swap 11.25 0.50 spread U.S. 3-year dollar swap 13.50 0.25 spread U.S. 5-year dollar swap 8.00 0.75 spread U.S. 10-year dollar swap -1.00 0.00 spread U.S. 30-year dollar swap -27.50 0.00 spread (Reporting by Karen Brettell; additional reporting by Yoruk Bahceli in London; editing by Jonathan Oatis)


The Dow and the Nasdaq opened lower on Wednesday after a mixed bag of earnings from big technology firms and downbeat Boeing results, while investors hoped that the Federal Reserve would stick to its promise of keeping monetary policy loose.
FILE PHOTO: A man walks by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York Building in New York City, U.S., April 26, 2021. REUTERS/Shannon Stapleton
(Reuters) - The Dow and the Nasdaq opened lower on Wednesday after a mixed bag of earnings from big technology firms and downbeat Boeing results, while investors hoped that the Federal Reserve would stick to its promise of keeping monetary policy loose.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 124.5 points, or 0.37%, at the open to 33860.46. The S&P 500 fell 1.6 points, or 0.04%, at the open to 4185.14, while the Nasdaq Composite dropped 7.4 points, or 0.05%, to 14082.782 at the opening bell.


The Dow and the Nasdaq opened lower on Wednesday after a mixed bag of earnings from big technology firms and downbeat Boeing results, while investors hoped that the Federal Reserve would stick to its promise of keeping monetary policy loose.
FILE PHOTO: A man walks by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York Building in New York City, U.S., April 26, 2021. REUTERS/Shannon Stapleton
(Reuters) - The Dow and the Nasdaq opened lower on Wednesday after a mixed bag of earnings from big technology firms and downbeat Boeing results, while investors hoped that the Federal Reserve would stick to its promise of keeping monetary policy loose.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 124.5 points, or 0.37%, at the open to 33860.46. The S&P 500 fell 1.6 points, or 0.04%, at the open to 4185.14, while the Nasdaq Composite dropped 7.4 points, or 0.05%, to 14082.782 at the opening bell.


Stocks look set for a slightly lower open Wednesday as investors await the Federal Reserve’s policy decision.
Text size
Stocks look set for a slightly lower open Wednesday as investors await the Federal Reserve’s policy decision.
Dow Jones Industrial Average futures have dropped 77 points, or 0.2%, while S&P 500 futures were little changed, and Nasdaq Composite futures have declined 0.16%.
The market isn’t moving, and the Fed almost certainly won’t be either. It’s expected to keep policy as is, leaving the benchmark lending rate near 0% and maintaining the size of its bond purchasing program. But investors are looking for hints that the Fed will begin reducing the size of that program sooner rather than later, as the economy has recovered more quickly than expected.
“Wednesday’s FOMC statement is arguably the most important statement so far this year, as investors are increasingly trying to figure out when the Fed may start to pare back its Covid-19-related stimulus, since the economy is recovering at a faster-than-expected rate,” said Danielle DiMartino Booth, CEO and chief strategist of Quill Intelligence.
Why does that matter? A smaller asset purchasing program drives fewer dollars into bonds, which would lower prices and lift yields, all else being equal. And that, in turn, could make bonds more attractive to investors relative to stocks.
Here are five stocks making moves in Wednesday’s premarket action:
Microsoft (MSFT) stock fell 2.8% after reporting a profit of $1.95 a share, beating forecasts for $1.78 a share, on sales of $41.7 billion, above expectations for $41 billion.
Alphabet (GOOGL) stock rose 5% after reporting a profit of $26.29 a share, beating forecasts for $15.64 a share, on sales of $55.31 billion, above expectations for $51.66 billion.
Boeing (BA) stock fell 1.7% after reporting a loss of $1.53 a share, larger than the $1.16 loss forecast by Wall Street, on sales of $15.22 billion, above expectations for $15 billion.
ViacomCBS (VIAC) stock dropped 1% even after getting upgraded to Buy from Neutral at Citigroup.
Spirit Airlines (SAVE) stock dropped 3.5% after getting downgraded to In-line from Outperform at Evercore.
Write to Jacob Sonenshine at jacob.sonenshine@barrons.com


The Dow and the Nasdaq were set to open lower on Wednesday after a mixed bag of earnings from big technology firms and downbeat Boeing results, while investors hoped that the Federal Reserve would stick to its promise of keeping monetary policy loose.
(Reuters) -The Dow and the Nasdaq were set to open lower on Wednesday after a mixed bag of earnings from big technology firms and downbeat Boeing results, while investors hoped that the Federal Reserve would stick to its promise of keeping monetary policy loose.
FILE PHOTO: A man walks by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York Building in New York City, U.S., April 26, 2021. REUTERS/Shannon Stapleton
Microsoft Corp met quarterly sales expectations and beat profit estimates, but its shares fell 2.7% in premarket trading on skepticism about one-off benefits included in the results and high hopes after a year-long rally.
Google parent Alphabet Inc jumped 5.1% on reporting record profit for the second consecutive quarter and a $50 billion share buyback but warned a surge in usage and ad sales during the pandemic may slow as people resume in-person activities.
Meanwhile, the U.S. central bank’s policy statement is expected to largely follow the mold established in December, when the Fed said it would not change monetary policy until there had been “substantial further progress” in meeting its maximum employment and 2% inflation goals. The statement is due at 2 p.m. EDT.
“Investors will get what they are expecting, which is continued super dovish comments from the Fed,” said Christopher Grisanti, chief equity strategist at MAI Capital Management in Cleveland.
“If there is any change from that stand, it’ll be a big deal for the markets, but that is unlikely.”
The benchmark 10-year Treasury yield rose to its highest in more than two weeks. [US/]
At 8:17 a.m. ET, Dow e-minis were down 76 points, or 0.22%, S&P 500 e-minis were up 0.25 points, or 0.01%, and Nasdaq 100 e-minis were down 24 points, or 0.17%.
The tech-heavy Nasdaq on Monday completed a full recovery from its 11% correction that began in February, largely supported by a rise in megacap stocks and ebbing inflation fears.
Boeing Co fell 1.6% after posting a wider-than-expected quarterly loss, even as it reported an improvement in aircraft deliveries as its 737 MAX jets come back on line.
Biotech Amgen Inc fell 4.0% as it said its first-quarter sales and profit fell due to a 7% drop in its net drug prices and a hit from the COVID-19 pandemic.
Some of the top U.S. companies, including Qualcomm Inc, Caterpillar Inc and Exxon Mobil Corp, are reporting their first-quarter earnings this week.
Later in the day, Facebook Inc is expected to report a rise in first-quarter revenue, while Apple Inc is expected to post a more than 32% jump in second-quarter revenue. Shares of Facebook rose 2.2%, while Apple added 0.1%.
First-quarter overall earnings per share for S&P 500 companies are expected to jump 35% from a year earlier, which would be the biggest surge since the fourth quarter of 2010, according to Refinitiv IBES data.
U.S. President Joe Biden is expected to unveil a sweeping $1.8 trillion package for families and education in his first joint speech to Congress, senior White House officials say.


Copper eased from 10-year highs on Wednesday ahead of a policy announcement by the U.S. Federal Reserve, but analysts at Goldman Sachs joined others predicting a rally to record levels.
(Updates with official prices)
LONDON, April 28 (Reuters) - Copper eased from 10-year highs on Wednesday ahead of a policy announcement by the U.S. Federal Reserve, but analysts at Goldman Sachs joined others predicting a rally to record levels.
Benchmark copper on the London Metal Exchange (LME) was down 0.3% at $9,823.50 a tonne in official trading after reaching $9,965 on Tuesday, the highest since 2011.
Prices have more than doubled since March 2020 as the world economy rebounds and the shift to greener, more copper intensive energy raises the prospect of supply shortages.
“It is only a question of time before it exceeds the psychologically important $10,000 mark,” said Commerzbank analyst Daniel Briesemann, adding that the all-time high of $10,190 would be likely be breached shortly afterwards.
But he said the rally looked overstretched a sharp correction was likely before copper rises further in the years ahead.
GOLDMAN: Goldman Sachs forecast copper would average $9,675 a tonne in 2021, $11,875 a tonnes in 2022 and $12,000 a tonne in 2023.
CHILE: The threat of strikes at copper mines in Chile receded after the country allowed another drawdown in pensions, pleasing workers.
SUPPLY OUTLOOK: Ample supplies next year and in 2023 will keep the market balanced, but miners need to start investing in new capacity now to meet a pick up in demand growth.
MARKETS/FED: World shares were near record highs and the dollar and global bond yields nudged higher. Markets will be watching for signs that the Fed will tighten policy in a statement due at 1800 GMT.
TIN: LME tin was up 2.1% at $27,706 a tonne after reaching $27,850, its highest since 2011. Supplies are short, with stockpiles in LME-registered warehouses at just 1,300 tonnes. MSNSTX-TOTAL
OTHER METALS: Aluminium was up 0.1% at $2,397.50 a tonne, zinc was flat at $2,926, nickel added 1.8% to $17,262 and lead was 0.4% higher at $2,097.50.


World shares cosied up close to record highs and the dollar and global bond yields nudged up on Wednesday, as traders waited to see if the U.S. Federal Reserve utters the dreaded 'T' word later - tapering of its mass stimulus programme.
LONDON (Reuters) - World shares cosied up close to record highs and the dollar and global bond yields nudged up on Wednesday, as traders waited to see if the U.S. Federal Reserve utters the dreaded ‘T’ word later - tapering of its mass stimulus programme.
FILE PHOTO: A man wearing a protective face mask walks past the London Stock Exchange Group building in the City of London financial district, whilst British stocks tumble as investors fear that the coronavirus outbreak could stall the global economy, in London, Britain, March 9, 2020. REUTERS/Toby Melville
The broad expectation is that it won’t want to unsettle markets for now, and with a packed day of corporate earnings, economic data and U.S. President Joe Biden’s first address before a joint Congress session, there was plenty to navigate.
MSCI’s broadest index of world shares was sidestepping towards its best month of the year so far, with Europe’s bourses fighting for modest gains [.EU] and S&P 500 futures flat after Wall Street’s more than 5% April spurt. [.N]
In the FX markets, the dollar was on course for its first unbroken two-day run of gains of the month - April is currently set to be its cruellest month since last July. U.S. 10-year Treasury yields, whose swift rise earlier in the year caught markets off guard, touched their highest in nearly two weeks at 1.647%.
“The thing that we are going to watch most closely is if the Fed says anything along the lines of tapering of asset purchases,” said Jim Caron, a senior portfolio manager at Morgan Stanley Investment Management.
“As long that doesn’t get mentioned, we are all good,” he said, explaining that with the coronavirus pandemic still worsening in many parts of the world, investors would view any move towards tapering as premature.
Most Fed watchers expect Chairman Jerome Powell to repeat the bank’s recent message that its low interest rates and support programmes will remain in place for a long time yet.
Biden will also address Congress and is likely to underscore his administration’s plans for mass infrastructure and stimulus spending.
These developments would normally be positive for stocks, but analysts say so much economic optimism is already priced into the equity market that it is difficult to budge equities further from current levels.
Otherwise, Europe’s traders were waiting to hear from ECB President Christine Lagarde and other top policymakers. Economic data releases showed an unexpected drop in Germany’s GfK consumer confidence reading for May though an equivalent in France at least stayed steady for April.
(Graphic: Global markets in April and year to date: )
APPLE EYED
U.S. earnings later include tech and internet giants Apple, Facebook and Qualcomm, as well as Boeing and Ford. [.N] The preliminary March reading for U.S wholesale inventories is also due.
Facebook is expected to report a revenue rise due to online advertising demand during the COVID pandemic, while Apple is expected to post a more than 32% jump in revenue, driven by 5G phone demand. [.N]
There was a mixed bag of earnings from Tesla, 3M, Microsoft, and Google-parent Alphabet on Tuesday.
In the FX markets, the dollar index rose 0.2% to 91.047, bouncing from Monday’s low of 90.679, its weakest level since March 3.
The greenback edged up slightly against the yen and the British pound, but trading is expected to be subdued until Powell speaks after the Fed meeting.
Pound followers are also watching next week’s UK regional elections, especially in Scotland where the pro-independence SNP and Green parties look on course to take firm control Scotland’s Holyrood parliament.
“With the pro-independence parties likely to secure a majority in the May 6 Holyrood election, we see a 15% chance of independence,” investment bank Morgan Stanley said in a research note to clients, adding there was a 30% chance that a new referendum would be held.
As well as the rise in Treasury yields helping the dollar higher, break-even rates on 10-year Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities, a measure of expected annual inflation for the coming decade, rose to 2.41%, the highest since 2013.
Elsewhere, the Australian dollar was knocked lower after disappointing data on consumer prices and in the cryptocurrency market there was excitement as the European Investment Bank said it would sell a two-year digital bond worth 100 million euros ($120 million) on the ethereum blockchain network.
Rival cryptocurrency Bitcoin edged lower to $55,618.
In commodities, Brent crude futures fell a touch to $66.40 a barrel, while U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude lost 0.03% to $62.92 per barrel due to worries about energy demand.
Benchmark copper edged back from a decade high of $9,965 a tonne hit on Tuesday due to some concerns about a possible softening of demand in China, the world’s top consumer of the metal.
($1 = 0.8278 euros)


Futures tracking the Dow and the Nasdaq fell on Wednesday after a mixed batch of earnings from big technology companies, while investors kept a close watch on the U.S. Federal Reserve, which is expected to stick to its promise of keeping monetary policy loose.
(Reuters) - Futures tracking the Dow and the Nasdaq fell on Wednesday after a mixed batch of earnings from big technology companies, while investors kept a close watch on the U.S. Federal Reserve, which is expected to stick to its promise of keeping monetary policy loose.
FILE PHOTO: A man walks by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York Building in New York City, U.S., April 26, 2021. REUTERS/Shannon Stapleton
Microsoft Corp met quarterly sales expectations and beat profit estimates, but its shares fell 2.4% in premarket trading on skepticism about one-off benefits included in the results and high hopes after a year-long rally.
Google parent Alphabet Inc jumped 5.2% on reporting record profit for the second consecutive quarter and a $50 billion share buyback but warned a surge in usage and ad sales during the pandemic may slow as people resume in-person activities.
Biotech Amgen Inc fell 3.6% as it said its first-quarter sales and profit fell due to a 7% drop in its net drug prices and a hit from the COVID-19 pandemic.
Meanwhile, the U.S. central bank’s policy statement, due to be released at 2 p.m. EDT, is expected to largely follow the mold established in December, when the Fed said it would not change monetary policy until there had been “substantial further progress” in meeting its maximum employment and 2% inflation goals.
The benchmark 10-year Treasury yield rose to its highest in more than two weeks. [US/]
Some of the top U.S. companies, including Boeing Co, Qualcomm Inc, Caterpillar Inc and Exxon Mobil Corp, are reporting their first-quarter earnings this week.
Facebook Inc is expected to report a rise in first-quarter revenue due to demand for online advertisements during the pandemic, while Apple Inc is expected to post a more than 32% jump in second-quarter revenue, driven by huge demand for its 5G iPhones.
Shares of Facebook rose 2.0%, while Apple fell 0.2%.
At 6:59 a.m. ET, Dow e-minis were down 35 points, or 0.1%, S&P 500 e-minis were up 4.25 points, or 0.1%, and Nasdaq 100 e-minis were down 14.75 points, or 0.11%.
U.S. President Joe Biden is expected to unveil a sweeping $1.8 trillion package for families and education in his first joint speech to Congress, senior White House officials say.


The U.S. dollar drifted higher on Wednesday as investors moved to the sidelines ahead of a U.S. Federal Reserve policy statement and a speech by Joe Biden later in the day where the U.S. president is set to announce more stimulus plans.
LONDON (Reuters) - The U.S. dollar drifted higher on Wednesday as investors moved to the sidelines ahead of a U.S. Federal Reserve policy statement and a speech by Joe Biden later in the day where the U.S. president is set to announce more stimulus plans.
FILE PHOTO: A U.S. dollar note is seen in front of a stock graph in this November 7, 2016 picture illustration. REUTERS/Dado Ruvic/Illustration/File Photo
Though the greenback recovered from a one-month low hit earlier this week, investors expect the U.S. central bank to maintain its policy settings and Fed Chairman Jerome Powell is seen as likely to repeat his dovish message.
While currency markets were generally calm, signs of nervousness were evident in the bond markets where yields on 10-year U.S. Treasury notes rose above 1.60% after tepid auction results. [US/]
With the consensus broadly that the Fed will remain on hold, any small shift in rhetoric could trigger an outsized move in markets.
The dollar index rose 0.2% at 91.047, bouncing from Monday’s low of 90.679, its weakest level since March 3, though investors were not convinced a recent downtrend had ended.
“The Fed has been fighting a rearguard action against calls for higher rates in the face of extremely strong data and the prospects of more stimulus, and most likely they will keep the same phrasing as before,” said John Marley, CEO of forexxtra, a London-based FX consultancy.
Investors’ inflation expectations, measured by the break-even inflation rate calculated from U.S. inflation-linked bonds, rose above 2.40% on Tuesday, the highest level since 2013.
The euro slipped 0.2% to $1.2070, off Monday’s two-month high of $1.2117.
The dollar stood at 108.97 yen, having jumped 0.59% overnight and extending its recovery from a seven-week low of 107.48 touched last week, in tandem with rises in U.S. bond yields.
Biden is expected to roll out a plan to raise taxes on the wealthiest Americans, including the largest-ever increase in levies on investment gains, in order to fund about $1 trillion in childcare and other social spending.
Elsewhere, the Australian dollar dropped 0.3% to $0.77415 after the country’s consumer price index came in weaker than expected.


Futures tracking the Dow and the Nasdaq fell on Wednesday after a mixed batch of earnings from big technology companies, while investors kept a close watch on the U.S. Federal Reserve, which is expected to stick to its promise of keeping monetary policy loose.
(For a Reuters live blog on U.S., UK and European stock markets, click LIVE/ or type LIVE/ in a news window.)
* Futures: Dow down 0.10%, S&P up 0.10%, Nasdaq off 0.11%
April 28 (Reuters) - Futures tracking the Dow and the Nasdaq fell on Wednesday after a mixed batch of earnings from big technology companies, while investors kept a close watch on the U.S. Federal Reserve, which is expected to stick to its promise of keeping monetary policy loose.
Microsoft Corp met quarterly sales expectations and beat profit estimates, but its shares fell 2.4% in premarket trading on skepticism about one-off benefits included in the results and high hopes after a year-long rally.
Google parent Alphabet Inc jumped 5.2% on reporting record profit for the second consecutive quarter and a $50 billion share buyback but warned a surge in usage and ad sales during the pandemic may slow as people resume in-person activities.
Biotech Amgen Inc fell 3.6% as it said its first-quarter sales and profit fell due to a 7% drop in its net drug prices and a hit from the COVID-19 pandemic.
Meanwhile, the U.S. central bank’s policy statement, due to be released at 2 p.m. EDT, is expected to largely follow the mold established in December, when the Fed said it would not change monetary policy until there had been “substantial further progress” in meeting its maximum employment and 2% inflation goals.
The benchmark 10-year Treasury yield rose to its highest in more than two weeks.
Some of the top U.S. companies, including Boeing Co, Qualcomm Inc, Caterpillar Inc and Exxon Mobil Corp, are reporting their first-quarter earnings this week.
Facebook Inc is expected to report a rise in first-quarter revenue due to demand for online advertisements during the pandemic, while Apple Inc is expected to post a more than 32% jump in second-quarter revenue, driven by huge demand for its 5G iPhones.
Shares of Facebook rose 2.0%, while Apple fell 0.2%.
At 6:59 a.m. ET, Dow e-minis were down 35 points, or 0.1%, S&P 500 e-minis were up 4.25 points, or 0.1%, and Nasdaq 100 e-minis were down 14.75 points, or 0.11%.
U.S. President Joe Biden is expected to unveil a sweeping $1.8 trillion package for families and education in his first joint speech to Congress, senior White House officials say. (Reporting by Shivani Kumaresan in Bengaluru; Editing by Anil D’Silva)


The U.S. dollar drifted higher on Wednesday as investors moved to the sidelines ahead of a U.S. Federal Reserve policy statement and a speech by Joe Biden later in the day where the U.S. president is set to announce more stimulus plans.
The U.S. dollar drifted higher on Wednesday as investors moved to the sidelines ahead of a U.S. Federal Reserve policy statement and a speech by Joe Biden later in the day where the U.S. president is set to announce more stimulus plans. Though the greenback recovered from a one-month low hit earlier this week, investors expect the U.S. central bank to maintain its policy settings and Fed Chairman Jerome Powell is seen as likely to repeat his dovish message.
While currency markets were generally calm, signs of nervousness were evident in the bond markets where yields on 10-year U.S. Treasury notes rose above 1.60% after tepid auction results. With the consensus broadly that the Fed will remain on hold, any small shift in rhetoric could trigger an outsized move in markets.
The dollar index rose 0.2% at 91.047, bouncing from Monday's low of 90.679, its weakest level since March 3, though investors were not convinced a recent downtrend had ended. "The Fed has been fighting a rearguard action against calls for higher rates in the face of extremely strong data and the prospects of more stimulus, and most likely they will keep the same phrasing as before," said John Marley, CEO of forexxtra, a London-based FX consultancy.
Investors' inflation expectations, measured by the break-even inflation rate calculated from U.S. inflation-linked bonds, rose above 2.40% on Tuesday, the highest level since 2013. The euro slipped 0.2% to $1.2070, off Monday's two-month high of $1.2117.
The dollar stood at 108.97 yen, having jumped 0.59% overnight and extending its recovery from a seven-week low of 107.48 touched last week, in tandem with rises in U.S. bond yields. Biden is expected to roll out a plan to raise taxes on the wealthiest Americans, including the largest-ever increase in levies on investment gains, in order to fund about $1 trillion in childcare and other social spending.
Elsewhere, the Australian dollar dropped 0.3% to $0.77415 after the country's consumer price index came in weaker than expected.
(This story has not been edited by Devdiscourse staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)


Investors are taking to the sideline, as a policy decision from the Federal Reserve awaits, plus more big-name earnings from Boeing and Apple, to name a few.
Text size
Global stocks traded mixed on Wednesday, with U.S. equity futures mostly lower, as bond yields rose ahead of a policy decision from the Federal Open Market Committee. Investors are absorbing a batch of earnings news, with results from Boeing and Apple ahead.
Asian stocks mostly gained across the board, though the KOSPI fell 1%, with SK Hynix shares slumping 3.7%, after the South Korean memory-chip maker’s net profit missed consensus. The Stoxx Europe 600 index was flat, despite a flood of earnings news, with shares of Deutsche Bank soaring after the best quarter in years.
Dow industrial and Nasdaq-100 futures edged lower, while S&P 500 futures were flat, after a largely flat to lower day for stocks. Investors are waiting on a policy decision from the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) later on Wednesday, with a news conference to follow by Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell.
Rising yields were in the spotlight again, with those of the 10-year Treasury note up 3 basis points to 1.6423%, following the biggest daily jump in four weeks on Tuesday. Investors appeared to be positioning ahead of the Fed’s decision, even though most analysts aren’t anticipating any big shift in either tone or a major policy move.
“Though the broad consensus is that Jerome Powell and the rest of the FOMC will keep things unchanged this evening, there have been some reports suggesting that the topic of tapering bond purchases could be broached. If that is the case, then the markets could be about to end April on a bum note,” said Connor Campbell, financial analyst at Spreadex, in a note to clients.
As well, stocks have logged a strong April, with the S&P 500 up over 5% and the Nasdaq Composite up more than 6%.
“The fact that benchmarks are already trading close to record levels is weighing on market sentiment with investors needing further bullish catalysts to remove fears of a correction and drive prices further up,” said Pierre Veyret, technical analyst at ActivTrades, in a note to clients.
President Joe Biden ‘s first major speech to Congress later on Wednesday may also attract attention.
“The core of that [speech] will be him laying out the specifics of the American Families Plan, his commitment to child care, to education,” White House press secretary Jen Psaki told reporters last week, “and ensuring that there’s an investment in economic security from the federal government.”
Investors will be keeping a close eye on earnings, notably from the technology sector, with Apple, Facebook and PayPal all due to report after the market close, along with chip and telecommunications equipment maker Qualcomm and online auctioneer eBay.
Ahead of those results, aircraft giant Boeing will report, though analysts aren’t expecting a big earnings beat or terribly upbeat guidance. E-commerce group Shopify will also report, along with amusement park owner Six Flags.
Shares of Microsoft dropped 5% in premarket trading, as the technology giant’s better-than-expected results may have still disappointed some, given shares have climbed 11% in the past month.
Alphabet’s shares climbed 5%, after the parent of Google reported a profit that nearly doubled Wall Street expectations, while sales were also a solid beat. As well, the company said the board of directors authorized an additional $50 billion in buybacks of its Class C shares.
Pinterest was another company that fell short of a high investor bar. Despite beating earnings expectations in its first quarter, shares of the social-media group fell sharply. The stock has gained 290% in the past year.
In Europe, Deutsche Bank reported higher-than-expected profit and revenue, helped by a strong performance by its investment bank. The German lender boosted its year-outlook for revenue, as well as for its investment-bank unit. Shares climbed nearly 7%, with analysts at Citigroup noting it was the best quarter for Deutsche Bank in eight years.
WPP shares also climbed in Europe, after becoming the latest advertising group to post forecast-beating results as the industry rebounds from the Covid-19 pandemic.


A jump in U.S. Treasury yields and a firmer dollar kept emerging market currencies in check and stymied developing market stocks on Wednesday as investors awaited a U.S. Federal Reserve meeting.
* U.S. Treasury yields jump to two-week high
* Russia’s rouble gains 0.4% ahead of OFZ auction
* Most central European currencies soften against euro
April 28 (Reuters) - A jump in U.S. Treasury yields and a firmer dollar kept emerging market currencies in check and stymied developing market stocks on Wednesday as investors awaited a U.S. Federal Reserve meeting.
MSCI’s indexes of emerging currencies and stocks slipped 0.1% ahead of the Fed meeting. Markets are hoping for confirmation that policymakers have no appetite to tinker with support for the economy following a recent run of good U.S. data.
“We expect more of the same from Fed at the upcoming meeting, framing the story of no rate hike until 2024 and that Fed will be patient of inflation overshoots and be behind the curve in terms of tightening policy,” analysts at Maybank wrote in a note to clients.
Meanwhile, U.S. President Joe Biden will also address Congress later in the day and is likely to underscore his administration’s plans for mass infrastructure and stimulus spending.
An improving U.S. economy and expectations for big fiscal spending are causing more investors to question the levels of quantitative easing through bond purchases and how much inflation policymakers would tolerate.
The benchmark U.S. Treasury yield climbed to a two-week high and the dollar index gained 0.2%, leaving limited breathing space for emerging currencies.
South Africa’s rand weakened 0.2% while the Turkish lira climbed 0.4% in a third day of gains, with local bankers crediting locals buying lira for advances in recent days.
Russia’s rouble strengthened 0.4% to trade below 75 to the dollar with steady crude oil futures providing support. The gains came ahead of an OFZ treasury bond auction, which will be keenly watched after U.S. imposed sanctions that will affect foreign buying of Russian debt.
Russia’s return to a neutral monetary policy with its latest increase in interest rates will not hamper economic recovery, Central Bank First Deputy Governor Ksenia Yudayeva said.
Yudayeva added that inflationary expectations in Russia are “very high” and keep rising, explaining the rationale behind the central bank’s decision to hike the benchmark rate to 5% last week.
Most central European currencies also dropped against the euro, with Hungary’s Forint, Polish zloty and the Czech crown falling between 0.5% and 0.2%.
For GRAPHIC on emerging market FX performance in 2021, see tmsnrt.rs/2egbfVh For GRAPHIC on MSCI emerging index performance in 2021, see tmsnrt.rs/2OusNdX
For TOP NEWS across emerging markets
For CENTRAL EUROPE market report, see
For TURKISH market report, see
For RUSSIAN market report, see


European shares gave up opening gains on Wednesday, as caution crept in ahead of the U.S. Federal Reserve's policy decision, but strong results from Deutsche Bank and Lloyds Banking Group boosted earnings optimism. The pan-European STOXX 600 index slipped 0.3%, with travel and leisure stocks easing from all-time highs, and miners retreating after a recent rally.
European shares gave up opening gains on Wednesday, as caution crept in ahead of the U.S. Federal Reserve's policy decision, but strong results from Deutsche Bank and Lloyds Banking Group boosted earnings optimism.
The pan-European STOXX 600 index slipped 0.3%, with travel and leisure stocks easing from all-time highs, and miners retreating after a recent rally. The region's banking sector was up 0.3% and insurers rose 0.6%.
Deutsche Bank jumped 6.5% to the top of STOXX 600, as strength at its investment bank helped the German bank post a better-than-expected first-quarter net profit. Topping London's FTSE 100, Lloyds Banking Group rose 3.3% after reporting a better-than-expected profit.
Sweden's SEB and Spain's Santander inched lower after their quarterly results. "At a market level, Europe has performed strongly year-to-date and it's clear that there has been an anticipation that the recovery will be quite sharp and strong," said Tom Dorner, investment director for European equities at Aberdeen Standard Investments. "You're still seeing a rotation in the market in favour of the more cyclical names like banks and autos."
Investors, however, stayed away from making big bets ahead of the U.S. central bank's policy announcement due at 1800 GMT. Policymakers are widely expected to reaffirm their stance to keep monetary policy loose until enough economic progress has been made. Earnings at European companies in the first quarter of 2021 are expected to surge 71.3% from a year earlier, according to Refinitiv IBES data, up from last week's forecast of a 61.2% jump.
The world's biggest advertising company WPP rose 2.9% on returning to underlying growth in the first quarter, as clients launched new products and brands. German food delivery company Delivery Hero jumped 5.9%, as it expects revenues to more than double in 2021.
Among decliners, Lysol maker Reckitt Benckiser Group fell 1.4%, even as the company backed its full-year outlook. British supermarket chain Sainsbury's dropped 2.5%, after it reported a 39% fall in annual underlying profit.
(This story has not been edited by Devdiscourse staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)


World shares cosied up close to record highs and the dollar and global bond yields nudged up on Wednesday, as traders waited to see if the U.S. Federal Reserve utters the dreaded 'T' word later - tapering of its mass stimulus programme.
LONDON (Reuters) - World shares cosied up close to record highs and the dollar and global bond yields nudged up on Wednesday, as traders waited to see if the U.S. Federal Reserve utters the dreaded ‘T’ word later - tapering of its mass stimulus programme.
FILE PHOTO: A man wearing a protective face mask is reflected on a stock quotation board outside a brokerage, amid the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) outbreak, in Tokyo, Japan November 10, 2020. REUTERS/Issei Kato/File Photo
The broad expectation is that it won’t want to unsettle markets for now, and with a packed day of corporate earnings, economic data and U.S. President Joe Biden’s first address before a joint Congress session, there was plenty to navigate.
MSCI’s broadest index of world shares was sidestepping towards its best month of the year so far as Europe’s bourses struggled to hang on to some modest early gains and S&P 500 futures went flat.
In the FX markets, the dollar was on course for its first unbroken two-day run of gains of the month - April is currently set to be its worst month since last July. U.S. 10-year Treasury yields, whose swift rise earlier in the year caught markets off guard, touched their highest in nearly two weeks at 1.647%.
“The thing that we are going to watch most closely is if the Fed says anything along the lines of tapering of asset purchases,” said Jim Caron, a senior portfolio manager at Morgan Stanley.
“As long that doesn’t get mentioned, we are all good,” he said, explaining that with the coronavirus pandemic still worsening in many parts of the world, investors would view any mention of tapering as a premature step.
Most Fed watchers expect the bank’s Chairman Jerome Powell to repeat the bank’s recent message that its low interest rates and support programmes will remain in place for a long time yet.
U.S. President Joe Biden will also address Congress and is likely to underscore his administration’s plans for mass infrastructure and stimulus spending.
These developments would normally be positive for stocks, but analysts say so much economic optimism is already priced into the equity market that it is difficult to budge stocks further from current levels.
Otherwise, Europe’s traders were waiting to hear from ECB President Christine Lagarde and a number of other top policymakers. Economic data releases include Germany’s GfK consumer confidence reading for May and France’s consumer confidence reading for April.
APPLE EYED
U.S. earnings later include tech and internet giants Apple, Facebook and Qualcomm, as well as Boeing, GlaxoSmithKline and Ford. The preliminary March reading for U.S wholesale inventories is also due.
There had been mixed bag of earnings from Tesla, 3M, Microsoft, and Google-parent Alphabet on Tuesday.
In the FX markets, the dollar index rose 0.2% at 91.047, bouncing from Monday’s low of 90.679, its weakest level since March 3.
The greenback edged up slightly against the yen and the British pound, but trading is expected to be subdued until Powell speaks after the Fed meeting.
As well as the rise in Treasury yields helping the dollar higher, break-even rates on 10-year Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities, a measure of expected annual inflation for the coming decade, rose to 2.41%, the highest since 2013.
Elsewhere, the Australian dollar was knocked lower after disappointing data on consumer prices and in the cryptocurrency market there was excitement as the European Investment Bank said it would sell a two-year digital bond worth 100 million euros ($120.80 million) on the ethereum blockchain network.
Rival cryptocurrency Bitcoin edged lower to $55,618.
In commodities, Brent crude futures fell a touch to $66.40 a barrel, while U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude lost 0.03% to $62.92 per barrel due to worries about energy demand.
Benchmark copper edged back from a decade high of $9,965 a tonne hit on Tuesday due to some concerns about a possible softening of demand in China, the world’s top consumer of the metal.
($1 = 0.8278 euros)


The U.S. dollar edged higher on Wednesday as investors moved to the sidelines ahead of a U.S. Federal Reserve policy statement and a speech by Joe Biden later in the day where the U.S. president is set to announce more stimulus plans.
LONDON (Reuters) - The U.S. dollar edged higher on Wednesday as investors moved to the sidelines ahead of a U.S. Federal Reserve policy statement and a speech by Joe Biden later in the day where the U.S. president is set to announce more stimulus plans.
FILE PHOTO: A U.S. dollar note is seen in front of a stock graph in this November 7, 2016 picture illustration. REUTERS/Dado Ruvic/Illustration/File Photo
Though the greenback recovered from a one-month low hit earlier this week, investors expect the U.S. central bank to maintain its policy settings and Fed Chairman Jerome Powell is seen as likely to repeat his dovish message.
The dollar index rose 0.2% at 91.047, bouncing from Monday’s low of 90.679, its weakest level since March 3, though investors were not convinced a recent downtrend had ended.
The greenback’s gains were also bolstered by higher U.S. Treasury yields with benchmark yields on 10-year notes rising above 1.60% after tepid auction results. [US/]
Investors’ inflation expectations, measured by the break-even inflation rate calculated from U.S. inflation-linked bonds, rose above 2.40% on Tuesday, the highest level since 2013.
But analysts expect the Fed will remain unperturbed by the prospects of more stimulus plans and rising inflation expectations, holding the prospect of more losses for the greenback in the coming weeks.
“We still expect Powell to remain ultra-dovish and emphasise the long period ahead in which the Fed plans to maintain loose monetary policy, which will leave open the prospect of further USD weakness,” MUFG strategists said.
The euro slipped 0.2% to $1.2070, off Monday’s two-month high of $1.2117.
The dollar stood at 108.97 yen, having jumped 0.59% overnight and extending its recovery from a seven-week low of 107.48 touched last week, in tandem with rises in U.S. bond yields.
Biden is expected to roll out a plan to raise taxes on the wealthiest Americans, including the largest-ever increase in levies on investment gains, to fund about $1 trillion in childcare and other social spending.
Elsewhere, the Australian dollar dropped 0.3% to $0.77415 after the country’s consumer price index came in weaker than expected.


