The Federal Reserve signaled Wednesday that it plans to begin raising its benchmark interest rate as soon as March, a key step in reversing its pandemic-era low-rate policies that have fueled hiring and growth but also escalated inflation.
Traders work on the New York Stock Exchange floor in New York, Tuesday, Jan. 25, 2022. Stocks are closing lower on Wall Street Tuesday after another volatile day of trading. (AP Photo/Ted Shaffrey)
WASHINGTON (AP) — The Federal Reserve signaled Wednesday that it plans to begin raising its benchmark interest rate as soon as March, a key step in reversing its pandemic-era low-rate policies that have fueled hiring and growth but also escalated inflation.
With high inflation squeezing consumers and businesses and unemployment falling steadily, the Fed also said it would phase out its monthly bond purchases, which have been intended to lower longer-term rates, in March.
In a statement issued after its latest policy meeting, the Fed it “expects it will soon be appropriate” to raise rates.
Though the statement didn’t specifically mention March, half the Fed’s policymakers have expressed a willingness to raise rates by then, including some members who have long favored low rates to support hiring.
Speaking at a news conference, Chair Jerome Powell expressed his view, as he has before, that controlling inflation is vital to a strong job market.
“We believe that the best thing we can do to support continued labor market gains,” Powell said, “is to promote a long expansion, and that will require price stability.”
The Fed on Wednesday also set out principles it will follow once it decides to reduce its nearly $9 trillion in bond holdings, a sum that has more than doubled since the pandemic struck nearly two years ago. Some analysts expect the Fed to begin doing so as soon as July, a move that would contribute to tighter credit.
The central bank’s actions are sure to make a wide range of borrowing — from mortgages and credit cards to auto loans and corporate credit — costlier over time. Those higher borrowing costs, in turn, could slow consumer spending and hiring. The gravest risk is that the Fed’s abandonment of low rates could trigger another recession.
The central bank’s latest policy statement follows dizzying gyrations in the stock market as investors have been gripped by fear and uncertainty over just how fast and far the Fed will go to reverse its low-rate policies, which have nurtured the economy and the markets for years. The broad S&P 500 index fell nearly 10% this month before rebounding slightly Wednesday.
High inflation has also become a serious political threat to President Joe Biden and congressional Democrats, with Republicans pointing to rising prices as one of their principal lines of attack as they look toward the November elections.
Yet Biden said last week that it was “appropriate” for Powell to adjust the Fed’s policies. And congressional Republicans have endorsed Powell’s plans to raise rates, providing the Fed with rare bipartisan support for tightening credit.
The Fed’s bond purchases have been intended to reduce longer-term interest rates to spur borrowing and spending. Many investors also saw the bond buying as helping fuel stock market gains by pouring cash into the financial system.
Earlier this month, minutes of the Fed’s December meeting revealed that the central bank was considering reducing its bond holdings by not replacing bonds that mature — a more aggressive step than merely ending its purchases. The impact of the reducing the Fed’s bond stockpile isn’t well known. But the last time that the Fed raised rates and reduced its balance sheet simultaneously was in 2018. The S&P 500 stock index fell 20% in three months.
By not replacing some of its bond holdings, the Fed in effect reduces demand for Treasuries. This raises their yields and makes borrowing more expensive
Some analysts have said they aren’t sure how big the impact on interest rates will be or how much the Fed will rely on reducing its balance sheet to affect interest rates.
All of which means the Powell Fed faces a delicate and even risky balancing act. If the stock market is engulfed by more chaotic declines, economists say, the Fed might decide to delay some of its credit-tightening plans. Modest drops in share prices, though, won’t likely affect the Fed’s thinking.
Some economists have expressed concern that the Fed is already moving too late to combat high inflation. Others say they worry that the Fed may act too aggressively. They argue that numerous rate hikes could unnecessarily slow hiring. In this view, high prices mostly reflect snarled supply chains that the Fed’s rate hikes are powerless to cure.
This week’s Fed meeting comes against the backdrop of not only high inflation — consumer prices have surged 7% in the past year, the fastest pace in nearly four decades — but also an economy gripped by another wave of COVID-19 infections.
Powell has acknowledged that he failed to foresee the persistence of high inflation, having long expressed the belief that it would prove temporary. The inflation spike has broadened to areas beyond those that were affected by supply shortages — to apartment rents, for example — which suggests it could endure even after goods and parts flow more freely.


Mark Zuckerberg’s controversial cryptocurrency initiative is dead in the water amid resistance from the Federal Reserve — and Meta is now looking to sell off its crypto assets altogether, according to a report.
Mark Zuckerberg’s controversial cryptocurrency initiative is dead in the water amid resistance from the Federal Reserve — and Meta is now looking to sell off its crypto assets altogether, according to a report.
The Diem Association — a crypto project formerly known as “Libra” that has been backed by the parent company of Facebook and Instagram — planned to issue a so-called stablecoin that would have been pegged to the US dollar.
Backers of the stablecoins say they have the potential to transform global finance by offering the seamless transaction speeds of cryptocurrencies without the price volatility of bitcoin or ethereum.
But from the moment that Meta and its partners unveiled plans for a stablecoin in 2019, the idea met resistance from regulators, who expressed concern about letting the scandal-plagued company control a chunk of the global financial system. Zuckerberg defended the project in a contentious contentious Congressional hearing later that year.
Despite lawmakers’ opposition, Diem and Silvergate Capital — a fintech bank that was planning to issue the stablecoin — had pushed forward with their plans until they met resistance from the Federal Reserve in 2021, Bloomberg reported on Wednesday.
Following several rounds of talks, Fed officials told Silvergate in the summer of 2021 that the central bank could not guarantee that it would allow the Diem project to go forward, according to the report. Silvergate was then left with no way to issue the stablecoin, Bloomberg reported.
The Federal Reserve said it could not guarantee that it would allow the Diem project to go forward, according to Bloomberg. AFP via Getty Images
Meta is now exploring selling its roughly one-third stake in Diem, according to the outlet.
In addition to Meta, other partners in Diem include venture capital firms Andressen Horowitz and Union Square Ventures, as well as Uber, Shopify and the Singaporean state fund Temasek.
In November, a report issued by the US Treasury with contributions from the Fed, Securities and Exchange Commission and Commodity Futures Trading Commission called on Congress to crack down on issuers of stablecoins.
Backers of stablecoins say they have the potential to revolutionize finance. Getty Images
Since stablecoins can pose risks including “destabilizing runs, disruptions in the payment system, and concentration of economic power,” any entity that issues a stablecoin should be regulated like a bank, the agencies said.
“Failure to act risks growth of payment stablecoins without adequate protection for users, the financial system, and the broader economy,” the report said.
Meta is reportedly looking to sell its one-third stake in Diem. Getty Images
Diem and the Fed declined to comment. Meta did not immediately respond to a request for comment.


The Federal Reserve is getting ready to raise interest rates, the central bank said in its monetary policy update Wednesday. But it kept rates near zero for now.
(CNN) — The Federal Reserve is getting ready to raise interest rates, the central bank said in its monetary policy update Wednesday. But it kept rates near zero for now.
"With inflation well above 2% and a strong labor market, the Committee expects it will soon be appropriate to raise the target range for the federal funds rate," the Fed statement read.
Prices continued to climb into the end of 2021 and economists expect to see the peak of this inflation cycle in the early months of this year.
The Fed's preferred measure of inflation rose to 5.7% in the 12 months ended in November, the fastest increase in the consumer spending price index since July 1982.
The central bank slashed rates to near zero in March 2020 when the pandemic put the US economy into a choke hold.
Last month, the Fed signaled it would hike interest rates multiple times throughout 2022. Investors expect the first rate hike to take place at the Fed's next meeting in March: Market expectations for a rate increase in March climbed above 95% following the Fed announcement, from just below 90% before, according to the CME FedWatch tool.
In November, the Fed also announced the end of its pandemic-era stimulus and accelerated the roll-back of its asset purchases the following month.
The bank will continue reducing its monthly asset purchases and end them in early March, it said Wednesday.
After the end of the stimulus program and liftoff in interest rates, reducing its massive balance sheet is next up on the Fed's to-do list. The bank affirmed that it only expects to start focusing on balance sheet reduction after the rate hikes have begun.
This story was first published on CNN.com, "The Fed is getting ready to raise interest rates."


Global stock markets dropped Thursday after the US Federal Reserve signaled it that will move quickly to hike interest rates.
(CNN) — Global stock markets dropped Thursday after the US Federal Reserve signaled it that will move quickly to hike interest rates.
Asian markets tumbled. Japan's Nikkei slid 3.1% to close at its lowest level in 14 months and South Korea's Kospi slipped into a bear market after declining 3.5%. China's Shanghai Composite Index fell 1.8% to its lowest level since July, and Hong Kong's Hang Seng shed 2%.
Europe's Stoxx 600, which includes companies from 17 countries, dropped 0.2% in early trading. Most major European indexes lost ground, but the United Kingdom's FTSE 100 bucked the trend, rising 0.4%.
The declines come after Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell signaled that the Fed is preparing to raise interest rates at its meeting in March. Powell also indicated during a press conference that rates could climb more quickly than many analysts had anticipated.
The Fed boss said that the US economy and labor market are strong enough to tolerate higher rates, which are needed to reduce inflation. Analysts at BNP Paribas, who had expected the central bank to raise interest rates four times this year, revised their estimate to six hikes after Powell spoke to reporters.
"Chair Powell refused to be dragged in a debate on the likely pace and extent of rate hikes, but we read these comments as an indication the Fed's bias is for more frequent hikes than we had anticipated," BNP Paribas analysts told clients.
US stocks sold off during Powell's press conference and ended Wednesday with small losses. US futures were mixed on Thursday.
Tech stocks, which boomed as central banks around the world unleashed huge amounts of stimulus to protect the economy during the pandemic, have come under significant pressure in recent weeks.
Asian tech shares fell heavily on Thursday. An index in Hong Kong tracking the largest Chinese technology companies sank more than 4%. Alibaba was down more than 7%. Softbank and Tokyo Electron — a big Japanese semiconductor and electronics firm — fell 9% and 4.8%, respectively, in Tokyo.
Expectations for higher US rates pushed a key dollar index to the highest level in nearly a month. The US Dollar Currency Index — which measures the greenback's strength against a basket of currencies used by US trade partners — is up 0.8% to trade at 96.65.
The International Monetary Fund warned recently that emerging market and developing economies should prepare for possible turbulence in financial markets as the United States and Europe lift policy rates.
"Higher returns elsewhere will incentivize capital to flow overseas, putting downward pressure on emerging market and developing economy currencies and raising inflation," the organization said in its world economic outlook report on Tuesday.
Chinese President Xi Jinping last week urged central banks in the West not to hike interest rates too fast to fight inflation, as his country goes in the other direction to battle a sharp economic slowdown.
This story was first published on CNN.com, "Global markets retreat after Fed signals rate hikes are coming soon."


The Federal Reserve is getting ready to raise interest rates, the central bank said in its monetary policy update Wednesday. But it kept rates near zero for now.
(CNN) — The Federal Reserve is getting ready to raise interest rates, the central bank said in its monetary policy update Wednesday. But it kept rates near zero for now.
"With inflation well above 2% and a strong labor market, the Committee expects it will soon be appropriate to raise the target range for the federal funds rate," the Fed statement read.
Prices continued to climb into the end of 2021 and economists expect to see the peak of this inflation cycle in the early months of this year.
The Fed's preferred measure of inflation rose to 5.7% in the 12 months ended in November, the fastest increase in the consumer spending price index since July 1982.
The central bank slashed rates to near zero in March 2020 when the pandemic put the US economy into a choke hold.
Last month, the Fed signaled it would hike interest rates multiple times throughout 2022. Investors expect the first rate hike to take place at the Fed's next meeting in March: Market expectations for a rate increase in March climbed above 95% following the Fed announcement, from just below 90% before, according to the CME FedWatch tool.
In November, the Fed also announced the end of its pandemic-era stimulus and accelerated the roll-back of its asset purchases the following month.
The bank will continue reducing its monthly asset purchases and end them in early March, it said Wednesday.
After the end of the stimulus program and liftoff in interest rates, reducing its massive balance sheet is next up on the Fed's to-do list. The bank affirmed that it only expects to start focusing on balance sheet reduction after the rate hikes have begun.
This story was first published on CNN.com, "The Fed is getting ready to raise interest rates."


Global stock markets dropped Thursday after the US Federal Reserve signaled it that will move quickly to hike interest rates.
(CNN) — Global stock markets dropped Thursday after the US Federal Reserve signaled it that will move quickly to hike interest rates.
Asian markets tumbled. Japan's Nikkei slid 3.1% to close at its lowest level in 14 months and South Korea's Kospi slipped into a bear market after declining 3.5%. China's Shanghai Composite Index fell 1.8% to its lowest level since July, and Hong Kong's Hang Seng shed 2%.
Europe's Stoxx 600, which includes companies from 17 countries, dropped 0.2% in early trading. Most major European indexes lost ground, but the United Kingdom's FTSE 100 bucked the trend, rising 0.4%.
The declines come after Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell signaled that the Fed is preparing to raise interest rates at its meeting in March. Powell also indicated during a press conference that rates could climb more quickly than many analysts had anticipated.
The Fed boss said that the US economy and labor market are strong enough to tolerate higher rates, which are needed to reduce inflation. Analysts at BNP Paribas, who had expected the central bank to raise interest rates four times this year, revised their estimate to six hikes after Powell spoke to reporters.
"Chair Powell refused to be dragged in a debate on the likely pace and extent of rate hikes, but we read these comments as an indication the Fed's bias is for more frequent hikes than we had anticipated," BNP Paribas analysts told clients.
US stocks sold off during Powell's press conference and ended Wednesday with small losses. US futures were mixed on Thursday.
Tech stocks, which boomed as central banks around the world unleashed huge amounts of stimulus to protect the economy during the pandemic, have come under significant pressure in recent weeks.
Asian tech shares fell heavily on Thursday. An index in Hong Kong tracking the largest Chinese technology companies sank more than 4%. Alibaba was down more than 7%. Softbank and Tokyo Electron — a big Japanese semiconductor and electronics firm — fell 9% and 4.8%, respectively, in Tokyo.
Expectations for higher US rates pushed a key dollar index to the highest level in nearly a month. The US Dollar Currency Index — which measures the greenback's strength against a basket of currencies used by US trade partners — is up 0.8% to trade at 96.65.
The International Monetary Fund warned recently that emerging market and developing economies should prepare for possible turbulence in financial markets as the United States and Europe lift policy rates.
"Higher returns elsewhere will incentivize capital to flow overseas, putting downward pressure on emerging market and developing economy currencies and raising inflation," the organization said in its world economic outlook report on Tuesday.
Chinese President Xi Jinping last week urged central banks in the West not to hike interest rates too fast to fight inflation, as his country goes in the other direction to battle a sharp economic slowdown.
This story was first published on CNN.com, "Global markets retreat after Fed signals rate hikes are coming soon."


The S&P 500's near 10% drop so far this year has surpassed losses on most non-U.S. indexes and some reckon that recent investment outflows from the market, first in a month according to BofA, are only the beginning. Goldman Sachs' analysis of eight Federal Reserve hiking cycles since 1975 appears to support that view.
U.S. stock markets, after enjoying their best three-year run in more than two decades, may soon have to cede the top spot.
With the Fed preparing to raise interest rates https://www.reuters.com/business/finance/inflation-fighting-fed-likely-flag-march-interest-rate-hike-2022-01-26 for the first time in almost four years, capital is starting to fan out of rate-sensitive U.S. shares into other parts of the world where markets are cheaper and potentially more resilient. The S&P 500's near 10% drop so far this year has surpassed losses on most non-U.S. indexes and some reckon that recent investment outflows from the market, first in a month according to BofA, are only the beginning.
Goldman Sachs' analysis of eight Federal Reserve hiking cycles since 1975 appears to support that view. The bank found European stocks outperformed U.S. peers by four percentage points on average over six months following the first Fed rate increase.
It also observed a clear rotation into so-called value sectors such as banks and commodities which are better represented in European and emerging market equity benchmarks. "What it means is get the heck out of the United States," said Mike Kelly, head of global multi-asset at PineBridge Investments. "It's all about selling longer duration assets, so we are underexposed to U.S. equities."
Longer-duration stocks, in a nutshell, are those whose prices are driven by expectations of future earnings potential and therefore fare well when interest rates are low. U.S. tech companies with their exorbitant valuations as measured by their price-earnings ratios (PE) are a prime example and they account for over a third of the S&P 500.
For years, those stocks were an investment magnet, benefiting from rock-bottom interest rates and recently the pandemic-time shift to working, shopping and dining from home. Of the $1 trillion which flowed into stocks last year, U.S.-dedicated funds took a third. They would also have received a lion's share of the near-$500 billion absorbed by global mandate funds, according to Deutsche Bank.
Now Kelly says, markets are at an inflection point, away from when "PE went higher and interest rates went lower". Given that five megacap firms accounted for a third of the S&P 500 performance last year, unloved U.S. sectors should also benefit from rotation.
Martin Schulz, senior portfolio manager at Federated Hermes, said he went overweight international developed markets already last autumn, betting on a broad global economic recovery. "The cyclicality of the European markets, the Japanese markets... we think are going to be the big beneficiaries of this near-term globalized upturn." CHEAP EUROPE
Almost $6 billion fled U.S. equities in the week to Jan. 19, while Europe and emerging market funds absorbed $2.7 billion and $5.2 billion respectively, according to BofA. Morgan Stanley strategist Graham Secker also cited internal data showing $5 billion outflows from U.S. exchange traded equity funds (ETFs), while those focused on U.S. domestic equities shed $8.5 billion. European stock ETFs gained $3.6 billion.
"We are detecting it qualitatively from investors around the globe, to shift a bit of weight from the U.S. to elsewhere," said Secker. Monday's rout https://www.nasdaq.com/articles/analysis-volatile-markets-fed-uncertainty-add-to-u.s.-dip-buyers-risks rippled out globally, as European shares plunged 4% for their worst day since mid-2020 and emerging equities shed 2%. Yet they may be relatively better positioned to cope with tighter policy.
Europe trades at a 27% discount to Wall Street, compared to an average 15% discount before the previous three Fed cycles, Goldman Sachs estimates. And value shares overall are 50% cheaper than growth peers, double the discount seen before past rate rises. Europe is also delivering more positive economic data surprises and upward earnings revisions than the United States, Secker noted.
EMERGING MARKETS TOO All markets will feel it when central banks slow the flow of cash, and depending on what the Fed does, the net supply of cash https://www.reuters.com/business/central-banks-start-turning-off-cash-taps-2022-01-13 from the four big central banks may even shrink for the first time in years.
But this cycle differs in one respect from its last one; China https://www.reuters.com/article/china-economy-rates/china-caps-weekly-policy-easing-blitz-with-fresh-rate-cuts-idUSKBN2JV06J, which hiked rates in 2018 alongside the United States, is now easing policy to support its economy. Easier Chinese policy will benefit other emerging economies and export-focused Europe via trade and commodity prices and could spell a 10% upside for Asian shares in 2022, JPMorgan wrote.
Kevin Mahn, chief investment officer at Hennion & Walsh Asset Management in New Jersey, remains bullish U.S. stocks but reckons other markets may soon start to shine as well. "Perhaps they will start to experience some of the growth that we have seen in U.S. markets over the last three years," he added.
(Additional reporting by Danilo Masoni, Saikat Chatterjee and Marc Jones Editing by Tomasz Janowski)
(This story has not been edited by Devdiscourse staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)


The central bank, which has held short-term interest rates at near-zero since March 2020, is not anticipated to raise interest rates at the conclusion of Wednesday's meeting.
The Federal Reserve is expected to provide an update on its approach to high inflation today at 2 p.m. ET.
The central bank, which has held short-term interest rates at near zero since March 2020, is not anticipated to raise interest rates at the conclusion of Wednesday's meeting. Instead, Fed Chairman Jerome Powell will more likely tee up the first post-crisis interest rate increase for the next policy-setting meeting in March.
The reason: the Fed needs to end its pandemic-era policy of buying U.S. Treasuries and agency-mortgage backed securities in the open market, a process which should be finished by mid-March. The Fed balance sheet, where those asset purchases live, has ballooned to nearly $9 trillion.
Still, market volatility and the overarching concerns about high inflation readings — unseen in almost 40 years — mean heightened attention to the Fed statement and the Powell press conference that will follow.
His commentary could solidify — or reposition — Fed watcher predictions for how many rate hikes to expect through the remainder of this year. Currently, Fed funds futures contracts appear to be pricing in the strongest likelihood of four total rate hikes (25 basis points each, for a total of 1.00%) by the end of 2022.
The statement from the policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee will be released at 2 p.m. ET followed by Chairman Powell's press conference at 2:30 p.m. ET.
Federal Reserve Board Chairman Jerome Powell speaks during his re-nominations hearing of the Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee on Capitol Hill January 11, 2022, in Washington, DC. (Photo by Brendan Smialowski / POOL / AFP) (Photo by BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/POOL/AFP via Getty Images)
Brian Cheung is a reporter covering the Fed, economics, and banking for Yahoo Finance. You can follow him on Twitter @bcheungz.
Follow Yahoo Finance on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, Flipboard, LinkedIn, YouTube, and reddit


A primer on the U.S. Federal Reserve
Globe editors have posted this research report with permission of Rosenberg Research. This should not be construed as an endorsement of the report’s recommendations. For more on The Globe’s disclaimers please read here. The following is excerpted from the report:
There are too many rate hikes priced in, but the big deal is the end of QE and the onset of QT [Quantitative Tightening]. Farewell to the “wealth effect” on spending).
You look at the correlations and they say a lot. When it comes to the balance sheet, it has 90% correlation to the stock market but less than a 50% correlation to GDP. You go to the funds rate, it has only a 25% dampening effect on the stock market but an 80% negative impact on the real economy.
So what I’d be looking for now that the Fed has got the market reset for 4 rate hikes this year (and it is going to start in March, of that there is little doubt because Biden has already given a nod and all the FOMC doves are on board) is that the bigger surprise will be a quicker taper and quicker move to QT, and that is because it is the most efficient way to cool demand without crushing it. But the real damage is going to be for risk assets, and when you read the minutes from all the meetings of the past year, it is clear that the Fed is at least as concerned over asset bubbles as much as it is concerned that we have hit the wall on labor supply. And, in fact, one of the basic supporting mechanisms for this “Great Resignation” theme is this ingrained belief that people don’t have to go back to work because of their bloated portfolios.
Creating the conditions for a new and lower range for the equity market is going to suit the Fed just fine, and the Fed is a big believer in the equity and housing wealth effect on spending and that this runs in both directions.
Read the full report here.
Read other research reports here
Be smart with your money. Get the latest investing insights delivered right to your inbox three times a week, with the Globe Investor newsletter. Sign up today.


Some on Wall Street are worried that the U.S. Federal Reserve on Wednesday may signal a forthcoming half-point increase in its key rate
Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell is seen delivering remarks on a screen as a trader works on the floor at the New York Stock Exchange, on Dec. 15, 2021.ANDREW KELLY/Reuters
Wild volatility in the stock market this week has put heightened scrutiny on the Federal Reserve’s meeting Wednesday and whether the Fed will clarify just how fast it plans to tighten credit and potentially slow the economy.
With high inflation squeezing consumers and businesses, the Fed is expected to signal that it will raise its benchmark short-term interest rate in March in a dramatic reversal from the ultra-low-rate policies it imposed during the pandemic recession. To further tighten credit, the Fed also plans to end its monthly bond purchases in March. And later this year, it may start reducing its huge stockpile of Treasury and mortgage bonds.
Investors fear there may be still more to come. Some on Wall Street worry that on Wednesday, the Fed may signal a forthcoming half-point increase in its key rate. There is also concern that at a news conference, Fed Chair Jerome Powell could suggest that the central bank will raise rates more times this year than the four hikes most economists expect.
Another wild card – particularly for Wall Street – is the Fed’s bond holdings. As recently as September, those holdings were growing by $120-billion a month. The bond purchases, which the Fed financed by creating money, were intended to reduce longer-term rates to spur borrowing and spending. Many investors saw the bond buying as helping fuel stock market gains by pouring cash into the financial system.
Earlier this month, minutes of the Fed’s December meeting revealed that the central bank was considering reducing its bond holdings by not replacing bonds that mature – a more aggressive step than just ending the purchases. Analysts now forecast that the Fed could begin shrinking its holding as early as July, much sooner than was expected even a few months ago.
The impact of reducing the Fed’s bond stockpile isn’t well known. But the last time the Fed raised rates and reduced its balance sheet simultaneously was in 2018. The S&P 500 stock index tumbled 20 per cent in three months.
If, as expected, the Fed raises its key rate in March by a quarter-point, it would lift the rate to a range of 0.25 per cent to 0.5 per cent, up from near zero. The Fed’s moves are likely to make a wide range of borrowing – from mortgages and credit cards to auto loans and corporate credit – more expensive. Those higher borrowing costs, in turn, could slow spending and weaken corporate profits. The gravest risk is that the Fed’s abandonment of low rates, which have nurtured the economy and the financial markets for years, could trigger another recession.
Those worries have sent stock prices fluctuating wildly. The Dow Jones average plunged more than 1,000 points during Monday’s trading session before recovering and finishing with a modest gain. On Tuesday, the S&P 500 closed down 1.2 per cent. Steady declines since the start of the year have left the S&P down nearly 10 per cent – the level that investors define as a “correction.”
Economists have forecast that when the Fed does start allowing some of its $8.8-trillion in bond holdings to roll off its balance sheet, it will do so at a pace of $100-billion a month. By not replacing some securities, the Fed in effect reduces demand for Treasuries. This raises their yields and makes borrowing more expensive.
Yet some analysts say they aren’t sure how big the impact on interest rates will be or how much the Fed will rely on reducing its balance sheet to affect interest rates.
“There is a fair bit of uncertainty about what to expect,” said Michael Hanson, global economist at JPMorgan Chase.
Gennadiy Goldberg, U.S. rates strategist at TD Securities, said that Wall Street has also been unnerved by the sharp jump in the inflation-adjusted interest rate on the 10-year Treasury. That rate has jumped by one-half a percentage point just this month, an unusually swift rise.
All of which means Powell will face a delicate and even risky balancing act at his news conference Wednesday.
“It’s a threading-the-needle story,” Goldberg said. “They want to continue to sound hawkish – just not so hawkish as to create extreme market volatility.”
If the stock market is engulfed by more chaotic declines, economists say, the Fed might decide to delay some of its credit-tightening plans. Modest drops in share prices, though, won’t likely affect its plans.
“The Fed does not at all mind seeing a repricing of risk here but would want to see it in an orderly fashion,” said Ellen Gaske, lead economist at PGIM Fixed Income, a global asset manager.
Some economists have expressed concern that the Fed is already moving too late to combat high inflation. Others say they worry that the Fed may act too aggressively. They argue that numerous rate hikes would risk causing a recession and wouldn’t slow inflation in any case. In this view, high prices mostly reflect snarled supply chains that the Fed’s rate hikes are powerless to cure.
This week’s Fed meeting comes against the backdrop of not only high inflation – consumer prices have surged 7 per cent in the past year, the fastest pace in nearly four decades – but also an economy gripped by another wave of COVID-19 infections.
Powell has acknowledged that he failed to foresee the persistence of high inflation, having long expressed the belief that it would prove temporary. The inflation spike has broadened to areas beyond those that were affected by supply shortages – to apartment rents, for example – which suggests it could endure even after goods and parts flow more freely.
Be smart with your money. Get the latest investing insights delivered right to your inbox three times a week, with the Globe Investor newsletter. Sign up today.


U.S. stock index futures rallied on Wednesday ahead of the outcome of a Federal Reserve policy meeting, with rate hikes this year already priced in, while oil rose towards recent seven-year highs on tension between Russia and Ukraine.
U.S. stock index futures rallied on Wednesday ahead of the outcome of a Federal Reserve policy meeting, with rate hikes this year already priced in, while oil rose towards recent seven-year highs on tension between Russia and Ukraine. The Fed is due to update its policy plan at 1900 GMT after a two-day meeting. A first rate increase is seen in March, and three more quarter-point increases are expected by year-end.
U.S. S&P futures jumped 1.34%, indicating a stronger open on Wall Street, after the S&P 500 index lost 1.22% in the previous session. Nasdaq futures rose 2% after Microsoft Corp jumped in pre-market trading, as the tech giant forecast revenue for the current quarter broadly ahead of Wall Street targets. .
The Nasdaq Composite lost 2.28% on Tuesday. The MSCI world index rose 0.35%, European shares climbed 1.97% and Britain's FTSE 100 gained 1.71%.
"There was some froth in markets, particularly in the U.S. and particularly in tech and some of that air has come out," said Fahad Kamal, chief investment officer at Kleinwort Hambros. "I don't think this is a dead cat bounce -- we are nowhere near recession by any measure."
U.S. stocks posted their worst week since 2020 last week. The MSCI index is also on course for its biggest monthly drop since the COVID-19 pandemic hit markets in March 2020, though analysts at Goldman Sachs said equities had not reached "danger zone" levels. Sebastien Galy, senior macro strategist at Nordea Asset Management, said that given the recent volatility, he expected the Fed would be "far more cautious about the timing and pace of the balance sheet reduction and that will be welcomed by the equity market".
The Fed's balance sheet roughly doubled in size during the pandemic to nearly $9 trillion, as it snapped up bonds to help keep longer-term interest rates down to support the economy. But this has led to rising inflation, excessive leverage, and high valuations in certain segments of the stock market.
Growing tension as Russian troops massed on Ukraine's border have added to a risk-averse environment for investors. U.S. President Joe Biden said on Tuesday he would consider personal sanctions on President Vladimir Putin if Russia invaded Ukraine, as Western leaders stepped up military preparations and made plans to shield Europe from a possible energy supply shock.
Brent crude rose 0.61% to $88.81 per barrel. It reached $89.50 on Jan 20, the highest since October 2014. U.S. crude rose 0.4% to $85.95 a barrel.
Kristina Hooper, global market strategist at Invesco, said that if there was an invasion, "the ensuing sanctions against Russia could drive up the price of oil, which in turn could add to inflationary pressures in the short run". However, Ukraine and Russia's government bonds rallied, with political advisers from Russia, Ukraine, France and Germany due to hold talks in Paris. Andriy Yermak, chief of staff to Ukraine's president, tweeted on his arrival in Paris that it was "a strong signal of readiness for a peaceful settlement".
The dollar index edged up to 96.09 against a basket of major currencies, while the euro fell 0.2% to $1.1277, near one-month lows set on Tuesday. The Canadian dollar strengthened around 0.5% to 1.2568 versus the dollar. Odds are split on whether or not the Bank of Canada will raise rates for the first time since 2018 on Wednesday, with Omicron seen potentially delaying the start of an aggressive tightening campaign aimed at taming inflation.
The yield on benchmark 10-year Treasuries was 1.7886%, off a two-year high of 1.9% hit last week. German 10-year government bond yields were little changed at -0.072%.
MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan was flat, after sharp losses earlier in the week which have left the index off 2.8% this year. Japan's Nikkei closed down 0.44%, after hitting its lowest since December 2020.
China's blue-chip index hit its lowest since October 2020 before backing up to close 0.72% higher. Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index was up 0.19%. Gold prices ticked down to $1,845 per ounce, after hitting a 10-week high in the previous session.
(Additional reporting by Sujata Rao in London, Stella Qiu in Beijing and and Alun John in Hong Kong; Editing by Kim Coghill and Chizu Nomiyama)
(This story has not been edited by Devdiscourse staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)


U.S. stock index futures jumped on Wednesday following two days of turbulent trading, helped by stellar results from Microsoft, while investors looked to the outcome of the Federal Reserve's policy meeting. Microsoft Corp gained 3.9% premarket after the Windows maker forecast revenue for the current quarter broadly ahead of Wall Street targets, driven in part by its Intelligent Cloud unit.
U.S. stock index futures jumped on Wednesday following two days of turbulent trading, helped by stellar results from Microsoft, while investors looked to the outcome of the Federal Reserve's policy meeting.
Microsoft Corp gained 3.9% premarket after the Windows maker forecast revenue for the current quarter broadly ahead of Wall Street targets, driven in part by its Intelligent Cloud unit. Texas Instruments Inc rose 4.6% after the chipmaker forecast upbeat current-quarter revenue and said it would sharpen its focus on chips used in the lucrative automotive and industrial sectors.
The strong outlook from both the companies lifted tech-related stocks with Meta Platforms, Apple Inc , Google-owner Alphabet Inc, Amazon.com , Advanced Micro Devices and Nvidia Corp rising between 2.1% and 3.7%. The rate-sensitive tech and growth stocks have been roiled over fears of aggressive Fed action to combat inflation. Rising geopolitical tensions around Russia and Ukraine added to investors' woes, with the S&P 500 index flirting with a correction twice this week.
The policy decision is due at 2 p.m. ET (1900 GMT), where the U.S. central bank is likely to signal the start of an interest rate hike cycle beginning March. The announcement will be followed by Fed chairman Jerome Powell's news conference, which will be parsed for clues on the magnitude and pace of hikes for the year and strategy for shrinking its roughly $9 trillion balance sheet.
Fed funds futures traders are pricing in a 25 basis point hike in March, in addition to three more rate increases by the end of the year. "There is a greater chance we meet a confident, yet a comforting Fed," said Ipek Ozkardeskaya, senior analyst at Swissquote Bank.
"The Fed hasn't got anything to gain in sending out hawkish messages today: slaughtered equity markets won't help them to get the inflation situation straight." The benchmark index is now down nearly 9.2% from its record closing peak on Jan. 3, while the tech-heavy Nasdaq has fallen 13.5% so far this year.
At 6:51 a.m. ET, Dow e-minis were up 386 points, or 1.13%, S&P 500 e-minis were up 67.5 points, or 1.55%, and Nasdaq 100 e-minis were up 319.25 points, or 2.26%. The fourth-quarter reporting season is in full stride, with 79 of the companies in the S&P 500 having reported. Of those, 81% have delivered better-than-expected results, according to Refinitiv.
Tesla Inc added 4.3% ahead of its quarterly results after market close, while Boeing and Intel Corp also climbed in the run-up to earnings later in the day. AT&T Inc rose 1.7% after it beat market estimates for quarterly revenue on strong wireless and streaming demand.
Shares of all major Wall Street lenders gained more than 1% each.
(This story has not been edited by Devdiscourse staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)


The past two days have been a roller coaster on Wall Street, plunging, recovering and dropping again ahead of a meeting of the Federal Reserve about inflation.
In the two days ahead of the Federal Reserve's meeting, U.S. markets were especially volatile; Monday had at one point the biggest slide since the pandemic began.
WASHINGTON — Wild volatility in the stock market this week has put heightened scrutiny on the Federal Reserve's meeting Wednesday and whether the Fed will clarify just how fast it plans to tighten credit and potentially slow the economy.
With high inflation squeezing consumers and businesses, the Fed is expected to signal that it will raise its benchmark short-term interest rate in March in a dramatic reversal from the ultra-low-rate policies it imposed during the pandemic recession. To further tighten credit, the Fed also plans to end its monthly bond purchases in March. And later this year, it may start reducing its huge stockpile of Treasury and mortgage bonds.
Investors fear there may be still more to come. Some on Wall Street worry that on Wednesday, the Fed may signal a forthcoming half-point increase in its key rate. There is also concern that at a news conference, Fed Chair Jerome Powell could suggest that the central bank will raise rates more times this year than the four hikes most economists expect.
Another wild card — particularly for Wall Street — is the Fed’s bond holdings. As recently as September, those holdings were growing by $120 billion a month. The bond purchases, which the Fed financed by creating money, were intended to reduce longer-term rates to spur borrowing and spending. Many investors saw the bond buying as helping fuel stock market gains by pouring cash into the financial system.
Earlier this month, minutes of the Fed's December meeting revealed that the central bank was considering reducing its bond holdings by not replacing bonds that mature — a more aggressive step than just ending the purchases. Analysts now forecast that the Fed could begin shrinking its holding as early as July, much sooner than was expected even a few months ago.
The impact of reducing the Fed's bond stockpile isn't well known. But the last time the Fed raised rates and reduced its balance sheet simultaneously was in 2018. The S&P 500 stock index tumbled 20% in three months.
If, as expected, the Fed raises its key rate in March by a quarter-point, it would lift the rate to a range of 0.25% to 0.5%, up from near zero. The Fed’s moves are likely to make a wide range of borrowing — from mortgages and credit cards to auto loans and corporate credit — more expensive. Those higher borrowing costs, in turn, could slow spending and weaken corporate profits. The gravest risk is that the Fed’s abandonment of low rates, which have nurtured the economy and the financial markets for years, could trigger another recession.
Those worries have sent stock prices fluctuating wildly. The Dow Jones average plunged more than 1,000 points during Monday's trading session before recovering and finishing with a modest gain. On Tuesday, the S&P 500 closed down 1.2%. Steady declines since the start of the year have left the S&P down nearly 10% — the level that investors define as a “correction.”
Economists have forecast that when the Fed does start allowing some of its $8.8 trillion in bond holdings to roll off its balance sheet, it will do so at a pace of $100 billion a month. By not replacing some securities, the Fed in effect reduces demand for Treasuries. This raises their yields and makes borrowing more expensive.
Yet some analysts say they aren't sure how big the impact on interest rates will be or how much the Fed will rely on reducing its balance sheet to affect interest rates.
“There is a fair bit of uncertainty about what to expect,” said Michael Hanson, global economist at JPMorgan Chase.
Gennadiy Goldberg, U.S. rates strategist at TD Securities, said that Wall Street has also been unnerved by the sharp jump in the inflation-adjusted interest rate on the 10-year Treasury. That rate has jumped by one-half a percentage point just this month, an unusually swift rise.
All of which means Powell will face a delicate and even risky balancing act at his news conference Wednesday.
“It’s a threading-the-needle story," Goldberg said. "They want to continue to sound hawkish — just not so hawkish as to create extreme market volatility.”
If the stock market is engulfed by more chaotic declines, economists say, the Fed might decide to delay some of its credit-tightening plans. Modest drops in share prices, though, won't likely affect its plans.
“The Fed does not at all mind seeing a repricing of risk here but would want to see it in an orderly fashion," said Ellen Gaske, lead economist at PGIM Fixed Income, a global asset manager.
Some economists have expressed concern that the Fed is already moving too late to combat high inflation. Others say they worry that the Fed may act too aggressively. They argue that numerous rate hikes would risk causing a recession and wouldn’t slow inflation in any case. In this view, high prices mostly reflect snarled supply chains that the Fed’s rate hikes are powerless to cure.
This week’s Fed meeting comes against the backdrop of not only high inflation — consumer prices have surged 7% in the past year, the fastest pace in nearly four decades — but also an economy gripped by another wave of COVID-19 infections.


Overseas funds have sold a net $3.1 billion worth of shares in Taiwan, South Korea and India this week. That follows $4.9 billion of withdrawals last week, highest since August.
Foreigners are cutting and running in some key Asian emerging markets amid turbulent trading ahead of this week’s Federal Reserve meeting, where policymakers are expected to signal an interest-rate liftoff in March.
Overseas funds have sold a net $3.1 billion worth of shares in Taiwan, South Korea and India so far this week, according to the latest available data compiled by Bloomberg. That follows $4.9 billion of withdrawals last week, the largest since August.
“Coupled with the rise in geopolitical risks (Russia – Ukraine) that may keep energy costs high in the near term, risks are fairly high for now and it’s not surprising to see money being taken off the table,” said Lorraine Tan, director of Asia equity research at Morningstar.
The MSCI Asia Pacific Index has lost more than 5% in two weeks, as rising bets on faster-than-expected monetary tightening and heightened tensions over Ukraine roiled global stock markets. Benchmarks in Taiwan and Korea have suffered with their large tech exposure, with the sector bearing the brunt of the selloff as bond yields rose.
“Foreign investors seem to have started reducing risky assets as they gauge the Fed’s monetary tightening,” said Hyun Choi, head of equity at Baring Asset Management Korea Ltd. “Investors need time to get adjusted to the new environment of change in liquidity.”
Some Southeast Asian markets that have relatively low exposure to tech names have bucked the trend of outflows. Foreigners have been net buyers in small amounts in Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand and Vietnam so far this week.
In India, where the benchmark stock gauge slumped the most in two months on Monday, consumer technology names were among the biggest losers.
“The high intensity of selling in the market appears like forced liquidation by large foreign investors,” Abhay Agarwal, fund manager at Mumbai-based Piper Serica Advisors Pvt., said on the day. –Bloomberg
Also read: Why Federal Reserve will no longer have pandemic-era investors’ backs


London's FTSE 100 rose on Wednesday with heavyweight mining, energy and banking shares leading gains ahead of the outcome of a Federal Reserve meeting, while Playtech dropped after a report of potential breakup with Australia's Aristocrat Leisure. The blue-chip FTSE 100 rose 1.7% with Royal Dutch Shell, BP, Glencore and HSBC Holdings the top boosts to the index.
London's FTSE 100 rose on Wednesday with heavyweight mining, energy and banking shares leading gains ahead of the outcome of a Federal Reserve meeting, while Playtech dropped after a report of potential breakup with Australia's Aristocrat Leisure.
The blue-chip FTSE 100 rose 1.7% with Royal Dutch Shell, BP, Glencore and HSBC Holdings the top boosts to the index. The banking sub-index rose 2.7%, tracking higher yields amid expectations of rising interest rates.
Global shares steadied after sharp losses earlier this week as investors awaited any hints about faster tightening of monetary policy from the Fed later in the day. The FTSE 100 has gained 1.3% so far this year, significantly outperforming a 4.4% drop in the wider European stock aggregate , helped by cheap valuations, strong banking and energy gains and a lower exposure to technology stocks.
"There is a lot of global rotation out of growth into value stocks and the FTSE 100 is full of value stocks and that is one of the key reasons why the FTSE has outperformed and we expect this trend to carry on," said Keith Temperton, sales trader at Forte Securities. The domestically focussed mid-cap index was up 1.7% with travel and leisure stocks leading the gains.
"UK stocks have everything in its favor right now with strong commodity prices and the higher interest rate environment only to provide added support," Temperton said. Britain's Pets At Home jumped 4.8% after pet supplies retailer raised its profit outlook for fiscal 2022.
Hungary-based carrier Wizz Air added 3.2% even after it posted a third-quarter operating loss and said the fourth quarter loss was likely to be slightly higher, before an expected improvement in spring. Gambling software maker Playtech fell 3.6% and was the top loser on the mid-cap index after it once again backed a buyout by Aristocrat Leisure, following a report that the London-listed company was exploring a breakup if the deal does not go through.
(This story has not been edited by Devdiscourse staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)


World stocks edged up and the dollar was flat ahead of the outcome of the Federal Reserve's policy meeting on Wednesday, while oil rose towards recent seven-year highs on tension between Russia and Ukraine.
World stocks edged up and the dollar was flat ahead of the outcome of the Federal Reserve's policy meeting on Wednesday, while oil rose towards recent seven-year highs on tension between Russia and Ukraine. The Fed is due to update its policy plan at 1900 GMT after a two-day meeting. A first rate increase is seen in March and markets are already pricing in three more quarter-point increases by year-end.
The MSCI world index rose 0.32%. U.S. equities were more upbeat, however, with U.S. S&P futures up 1.01% after the index lost 1.22% in the previous session. European shares climbed 1.47% and Britain's FTSE 100 gained 1.38%.
U.S. stocks posted their worst week since 2020 last week, and the MSCI index is on course for its biggest monthly drop since the COVID-19 pandemic hit markets in March 2020, though analysts at Goldman Sachs said equities had not reached "danger zone" levels. Sebastien Galy, senior macro strategist at Nordea Asset Management, said that given the recent volatility, he expected the Fed would be "far more cautious about the timing and pace of the balance sheet reduction and that will be welcomed by the equity market".
Growing tension as Russian troops massed on Ukraine's border have added to a risk-averse environment for investors. U.S. President Joe Biden said on Tuesday he would consider personal sanctions on President Vladimir Putin if Russia invaded Ukraine, as Western leaders stepped up military preparations and made plans to shield Europe from a possible energy supply shock.
U.S. crude rose 0.27% to $85.82 a barrel after getting close to $88 last week. Brent crude rose 0.44% to $88.57 per barrel. The dollar index was steady at 96.08 against a basket of major currencies, and the euro was at $1.1286, near one-month lows set on Tuesday.
The Canadian dollar strengthened around 0.4% to 1.25905 versus the dollar. Odds are split on whether or not the Bank of Canada will raise rates for the first time since 2018 on Wednesday, with Omicron seen potentially delaying the start of an aggressive tightening campaign aimed at taming inflation. U.S. Treasury yields on two-year notes inched up to 1.0433%, holding onto gains made earlier this month. The yield on benchmark 10-year Treasury notes was 1.7851%, a little below the two-year high of 1.9% hit last week.
German 10-year government bond yields edged up to -0.069% . MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan was unchanged, after sharp losses earlier in the week which have left the index off 2.8% this year. It is testing mid-December's one-year low.
Japan's Nikkei traded 0.44% lower, close to its lowest level since December 2020. China's blue-chip index hit its lowest since October 2020 before reversing to close up 0.72%. Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index was up 0.12%.
Hao Hong, head of research at BOCOM International, expects limited appetite from investors to hold big positions in Asia after heavy market selling as the Lunar New Year holiday approaches. Gold prices ticked down to $1,844 per ounce, after hitting a 10-week high in the previous session.
(Additional reporting by Stella Qiu in Beijing and and Alun John in Hong Kong; Editing by Lincoln Feast and Kim Coghill)
(This story has not been edited by Devdiscourse staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)


U.S. Treasury yields were flat on Wednesday morning, ahead of a policy decision from the Federal Reserve's January meeting.
U.S. Treasury yields were flat on Wednesday morning, ahead of a policy decision from the Federal Reserve's January meeting. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note made little movement, trading at 1.7851% at 3:30 a.m. ET. The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond also struggled for direction and stood at 2.1309%. Yields move inversely to prices and 1 basis point is equal to 0.01%.
Treasurys
The Fed's two-day January meeting will wrap up on Wednesday afternoon, with a policy decision announcement scheduled to be released at 2 p.m. ET. The Fed is not expected to announce any policy changes on Wednesday. However, it is anticipated that the central bank will signal that it will be ready to raise interest rates as soon as March, and that it will consider other tightening measures. Ian Shepherdson, chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics, told CNBC's "Squawk Box Europe" that he also didn't expect the Fed to make any major policy moves on Wednesday. "Monetary policy can't do anything about inflation today, it can't do anything about inflation in the next 6 months," Shepherdson explained.
"It looks ahead 12-18 months before it takes full effect and by that point, I am reasonably confident — I stress no more than reasonably — that inflation will be heading back towards the target," he added. In terms of data releases, December's international trade numbers are due out at 8:30 a.m. ET on Wednesday. Retail and wholesale inventories data for December is also set to be released at 8:30 a.m. ET. The number of new homes sold in the U.S. during December is then due to come out at 10 a.m. ET. Auctions are slated to be held on Wednesday for $40 billion of 119-day bills and $26 billion of two-year floating-rate notes.


Emerging market stocks firmed on Wednesday, with all eyes on the U.S. Federal Reserve's policy statement later in the session, while Ukraine's hryvnia slipped as Russia continued its military build-up near its neighbour. MSCI's index of emerging shares was up 0.1% after a three-day rout over which it lost about 3.6%.
Emerging market stocks firmed on Wednesday, with all eyes on the U.S. Federal Reserve's policy statement later in the session, while Ukraine's hryvnia slipped as Russia continued its military build-up near its neighbour.
MSCI's index of emerging shares was up 0.1% after a three-day rout over which it lost about 3.6%. An index of Asian shares was flat, torn between losses in Taiwan and South Korea, and gains in China mainland and Hong Kong tech ahead of the Lunar New Year holidays.
Main indexes in Russia, South Africa, Poland and Saudi Arabia all rose 0.6% and 2%. Currencies of the developing world made small moves, as did the dollar, as investors awaited more clarity from the Fed amid speculation that its first interest hike of the year could be brought forward to the meeting ending on Wednesday.
While a 25 basis point March rate hike is priced in, investors are seeking clarity on the magnitude, pace and number of hikes for the year as inflation surges. The decision is due at 2 p.m. ET (1900 GMT). "Fed President Jerome Powell will probably try and get out of providing concrete statements on the rate cycle at this point of time so that they can take a decision based on the data over the coming months," said Antje Praefcke, FX and EM analyst at Commerzbank.
Higher U.S. rates dent the appeal for riskier emerging market assets, especially those with high external debt. Currencies see narrowing interest rate differentials which keep them attractive for carry trade. The International Monetary Fund on Tuesday cut 2022 world economic growth forecast, highlighting that the Fed tightening could delay Asia's recovery.
But foreign investors are piling into China at the start of 2022, seeing it as a haven from the inflation, growth and pandemic problems plaguing most other markets. The IMF also warned that a Russia-Ukraine military conflict would keep inflation higher for longer via increased energy and commodity costs.
The United States and UK said they could consider imposing personal sanctions on Putin if Russia were to invade Ukraine. Moscow launched a fresh set of navy drills to rehearse protecting Arctic shipping lane, while it continues a troop build-up near Ukraine. Russia's rouble swung between small losses and gains to Tuesday's close, while Ukraine's hryvnia slipped to four-year lows of 28.83 per dollar.
Political advisers from Russia, Ukraine, France and Germany are set to meet in Paris, while Putin and France's Emmanuel Macron are to talk on Friday. For GRAPHIC on emerging market FX performance in 2021, see http://tmsnrt.rs/2egbfVh For GRAPHIC on MSCI emerging index performance in 2021, see https://tmsnrt.rs/2OusNdX
For TOP NEWS across emerging markets For CENTRAL EUROPE market report, see
For TURKISH market report, see For RUSSIAN market report, see
(This story has not been edited by Devdiscourse staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)


If the US Federal Reserve ends its long-standing policy of underwriting asset prices, there could be a stimulus withdrawal equivalent to the $US5 trillion Japanese economy.
His strategy worked through the 1990s but backfired badly with the bursting of the dotcom bubble in 2000.
Following that market crash, Greenspan switched his central bank support to buying US mortgages.
That fuelled a mortgage securities boom that went bust with the global financial crisis in 2008-09, which, in turn, prompted then Fed chairman Ben Bernanke to implement his version of the “Greenspan put”.
Since then, US central bank support of asset prices, in particular equity markets, has become entrenched in the system and been implemented by successive Fed chairs, Janet Yellen and Jerome Powell.
The policy has been especially good for America’s largest banks, which have earned record profits since 2008-09, private equity companies that have ridden high on cheap debt, and the 1 per cent of the US population that owns about a third of the country’s wealth.
Advertisement
But the asset price inflation party is now on rocky ground.
With the Fed’s preferred core inflation measure running about 4.8 per cent – or double the rate experienced in the past decade – Powell is looking to raise official interest rates and wind back quantitative easing.
Many in the market, including Jeremy Grantham and The Australian Financial Review’s Christopher Joye, smell an end to the Fed put and the possibility sharemarkets will tank by 50 per cent.
But Powell’s options for removing the put are limited, according to Viktor Shvets, Macquarie’s equity strategist based in New York.
Shvets says the Fed and other central banks don’t have much room in a “financialised” and leveraged world, which is not ready for the removal of fiscal and monetary supports.
Advertisement
He says the primary mandate of central banks is not employment or inflation; it is maintaining the stability of the “cloud of finance”, which is five to 10 times larger than underlying economies.
“The Fed’s responsibility is to balance asset values that belong to the top 5 per cent, with the need to stimulate borrowing and consumption by the bottom 60 per cent [who own almost nothing], while keeping the diminishing middle relatively intact, without having all the required tools,” he says.
“The Fed is not an arbiter but rather a ‘market’s mirror’, with investors watching the Fed and the Fed watching investors, understanding that modern economies require rolling asset bubbles to sustain what the ‘cloud of finance’ demands and societies view as appropriate growth rates.”
Expansionary fiscal policies
Shvets says that if the Fed wants to keep inflation “boiling” to benefit US households, it will have to maintain highly expansionary fiscal policies, supported by an accommodative monetary stance.
The alternative is a fiscal cliff of enormous proportions.
Advertisement
Using data from the International Monetary Fund, Shvets says the fiscal deficits in the US, Japan, eurozone and Britain will fall from 11 per cent of GDP in 2021 to a range between 5 and 6 per cent in 2023.
The absolute deficits are projected to fall from $US5 trillion ($7 trillion) in 2021 to $US2.6 trillion in 2022 and $US2.1 trillion in 2023.
“In other words, investors are likely to witness around $US3 trillion of fiscal deficits removed over the next 18 months or so,” Shvets says.
“At the same time, as fiscal policies are becoming more stringent, monetary policies are also turning the corner, and equally as aggressively.”
Shvets says the withdrawal of support for the “cloud of finance” over the next 18 months could be extraordinary if central banks raise official interest rates and stop using their balance sheets to prop up asset prices.
He says the central banks of the US, Japan, UK and eurozone pumped about $US8 trillion into financial markets in 2020 and another $US2.3 trillion last year.
Advertisement
“It seems likely, therefore, that at the very least, central banks would remove probably more than $US2 trillion, and potentially $US3 trillion, from global liquidity,” he says.
“Hence, we continue to anticipate that, for G4 economies (US, UK, Japan and eurozone), the combination of fiscal and monetary tightening might be equivalent to withdrawing up to $US5 trillion to $US6 trillion of supports in a relatively short 18-month window.
Transitory inflation spike
“This is larger than the size of Japan’s GDP.”
Shvets believes the inflation spike in the US is transitory, and it is a mistake to quote annual inflation numbers.
“It is true that the inflationary spike was both stronger and more elongated than either economists or policymakers were anticipating,” he says.
Advertisement
“However, to quote annual numbers is meaningless, and on month-to-month or three months-to-three months – inflationary measures have already peaked.
“There is a lot less inflation in the eurozone, China and Japan, while Anglo-Saxons are more inflationary because goods demand rebounded a lot more there than in the rest of the world.
“Goods demand is running around 20 per cent above trend line in the US, while services demand is running at least 10 per cent below trend line.
“Assuming that we progress from pandemic to endemic, goods demand will ease and services will improve, while supply of goods is already getting better – just look at ISM and other indices.
Limited wages growth
“The same applies to labour markets. There is absolutely no evidence that inflation is moving into wages in the eurozone, China and Japan, and even in the US it is still mostly impacting disrupted sectors.
Advertisement
“At the same time, labour participation in the US remains low, and there is at least another 3 million and possibly up to 8 million people who can enter the labour force.
“If you think of consumer surveys, yes, immediate inflation expectations are high, but they come off over time, and neither 20- nor 30-year bond yields in the US signal any inflationary concerns – they’re stuck at just above 2 per cent.
“In other words, bond markets are telling you that longer-term, they expect neither inflation nor growth. The same is true of five year-five year break evens, which remain anchored around 2 per cent.”
Shvets says it is a mistake to look at economies as being disconnected from asset prices and market volatility.
“The Fed’s mandate is not inflation or employment but ensuring that the inverted debt and wealth pyramid does not collapse, because if it does, it will massively derate both growth and inflation.”
The arguments against the Fed put staying in place were put succinctly this week by economists at Nomura International Securities in New York – Aichi Amemiya, Robert Dent and Kenny Lee.
Advertisement
First, they said broad financial conditions remain accommodative and the Fed’s primary objective was to “normalise policy over coming months to ensure high inflation does not become entrenched, making a Fed put far less likely”.
Second, the Fed wants to tighten conditions and is happy for its hawkish pivot to be priced into financial markets. This is happening, as shown by the spike in 30-year residential mortgages in the US from 3.1 per cent in December to 3.5 per cent in January.
Third, several Federal Open Market Committee members have commented negatively on the elevated price-to-earnings ratios and sharemarket valuations.
Fourth, excess savings, which are estimated at $US2.5 trillion, can be used to offset any wealth effect from falling share prices.
Finally, the tightening in financial conditions before any rise in official interest rates may prompt the Fed to slow its course and reduce the likelihood of four rate increases in 2022.
“While financial conditions play a role in the overall economic outlook, their ability to create another Fed put similar to what occurred over 2011-19 remains far more limited,” the Nomura economists said.


Global shares steadied after sharp losses earlier this week as investors awaited any hints about faster tightening of monetary policy from the U.S. Federal Reserve later in the day. The domestically focussed mid-cap index was up 1.0% with travel and leisure stocks leading gains.
London's FTSE 100 rose on Wednesday with heavyweight mining, energy and banking shares leading gains as investors await the outcome of a Federal Reserve meeting later in the day, while gains in travel related stocks helped support the mid-cap index. The blue-chip FTSE 100 rose 1.3% with Royal Dutch Shell, BP, Glencore and HSBC Holdings the top boosts to the index.
The banking sub-index rose 1.5%, tracking higher yields amid expectations of higher interest rates. Global shares steadied after sharp losses earlier this week as investors awaited any hints about faster tightening of monetary policy from the U.S. Federal Reserve later in the day.
The domestically focussed mid-cap index was up 1.0% with travel and leisure stocks leading gains. Britain's Pets At Home jumped 3.1% after pet supplies retailer raised its profit outlook for fiscal 2022, as it witnessed sustained demand across its businesses.
Hungary-based carrier Wizz Air added 2.1% even after it posted a third-quarter operating loss and said the fourth quarter loss was likely to be slightly higher, before an expected improvement in spring.
(This story has not been edited by Devdiscourse staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)


European shares extended gains on Wednesday, as cautious traders awaited the outcome of the U.S. Federal Reserve's two-day meeting later in the session for clues on monetary policy tightening in the face of surging inflation. The pan-European STOXX 600 rose 1.1%, with all sectors in the black.
Travel and mining stocks led gains.
European shares extended gains on Wednesday, as cautious traders awaited the outcome of the U.S. Federal Reserve's two-day meeting later in the session for clues on monetary policy tightening in the face of surging inflation.
The pan-European STOXX 600 rose 1.1%, with all sectors in the black. Travel and mining stocks led gains. The Fed will update its interest rate plan at 1900 GMT after its meeting, with markets priced for a first rate hike in March, and three more quarter-point increases by year-end.
Hygiene products group Essity dropped 3.4%, after posting a bigger-than-expected fall in quarterly profit and saying it planned to raise prices further in the face of record high costs. Italian fashion group Tod's jumped 10.1% after announcing that sales last year rose by almost 40%, the first increase after five years of consecutive declines, beating market expectations.
Swiss drug contract manufacturer Lonza gained 2%, after reporting a 20% jump in 2021 core earnings, shored up by demand for the substances it supplies for new mRNA COVID-19 vaccines.
(This story has not been edited by Devdiscourse staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)


