John Netto, author of "The Global Macro Edge," joins Yahoo Finance's Jared Blikre for a discussion about the Federal Open Market Committee meeting decision and press event by Federal Reserve chair Jerome Powell.
Reuters
Sales at Italian luxury group Moncler rose 46% at constant exchange rates in the first half of the year, once again beating analysts estimates, despite a slowdown in the second quarter due to lockdowns in China. Moncler, which acquired smaller rival Stone Island in 2020, said on Wednesday it was confident about the second part of the year, the most important season for a brand known for its warm puffer jackets. It sees no "significant consequences" from the Ukraine conflict on full-year results and does not expect "at the moment" any impact on profitability from rising costs.


The stock market surged in advance of the 2:00 p.m. Federal Reserve rate decision, led by positive outlooks from Google and Microsoft.
The stock market rallied Wednesday morning in advance of the Federal Reserve's expected interest-rate hike. Stocks also surged on Alphabet's (GOOGL) and Microsoft's (MSFT) earnings and outlook announcements.
X
The Nasdaq composite led major indexes, up 2.5%, while the S&P 500 gained 1.4%. The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 0.4%. Volume fell on the Nasdaq and the NYSE vs. the same time on Tuesday. The small-cap Russell 2000 index gained 0.9%.
The Fed's two-day meeting concludes with a policy decision at 2:00 p.m. ET, followed by a press conference with Fed Chairman Jerome Powell at 2:30 p.m. Wall Street anticipates the central bank will raise interest rates aggressively through the end of the year — and then reverse gears and start cutting them in six months.
U.S. Stock Market Today Overview Index Symbol Price Gain/Loss % Change Dow Jones (0DJIA) 31918.83 +157.29 +0.50 S&P 500 (0S&P5) 3977.95 +56.90 +1.45 Nasdaq (0NDQC ) 11862.75 +300.17 +2.60 Russell 2000 (IWM) 181.06 +1.73 +0.96 IBD 50 (FFTY) 27.42 +0.36 +1.33 Last Update: 12:00 PM ET 7/27/2022
Seventy-six percent of polled economists now expect a 0.75% Fed rate hike, while 24% are looking for a 1% hike, according to CME Group's FedWatch tool, which tracks interest rate futures.
The 10-year U.S. Treasury yield continued to slide Wednesday, falling 2 basis points to 2.78% while the price of crude oil rose to $97.38 a barrel.
Durable Goods Rise, Feeding Stock Market Gains
In other economic news, June durable-goods orders rose 1.9%, beating the consensus forecast for a 0.5% decline. Ex-transportation, orders rose 0.3% vs. views for 0.2%. The core capital goods change was 0.5% vs. the expected 0.2%.
"Durable goods orders continue to show strong gains, with the year-over-year change holding steady in the 10% range," said Peter Essele, Head of Portfolio Management for Commonwealth Financial Network. "Of particular note in this morning's release is the fact that the amount of unfilled orders continue to decline. If the current trend continues, inflation should begin to moderate in the coming months as the imbalance of supply and demand swings to the former."
Google owner Alphabet reported June-quarter earnings and revenue that missed Wall Street targets as YouTube and the cloud-computing business fell short of expectations. Shares rallied more than 6% despite the shortfall.
Software leader Microsoft also missed analyst expectations for its fiscal fourth quarter, blaming unfavorable foreign-exchange rates and weak PC sales. Nonetheless, the company's upbeat guidance for the current fiscal year boosted the stock, up 4.8%.
Mexican fast-food chain Chipotle (CMG) jumped 15.5%, on pace to beat the stock's largest percentage increase since March 19, 2020, when it rose 15.25%. Chipotle reported earnings after the close on Tuesday, beating profit estimates but coming up a tad short on sales. Shares rallied into the 200-day moving average and well above the 50-day line.
Spotify, Boeing, Enphase Surge on Earnings
Digital media platform Spotify (SPOT) rallied 15.7% in the first half of Wednesday's stock market after reporting better-than-expected Q2 monthly active users (MAUs) of 433 million and beating on sales. Shares rose even though the quarterly loss was worse than expected.
E-commerce firm Shopify (SHOP) reported a loss for the June quarter while revenue and gross merchandise volume missed estimates. SHOP stock is trading 6% higher, erasing some of Tuesday's losses. Yesterday, the CEO confirmed it will cut roughly 1,000 workers, or 10% of its workforce.
Boeing (BA) was up 0.4% after reporting a sales shortfall and a larger-than-expected Q2 loss. The aviation giant beat free-cash-flow expectations by a wide margin.
IBD 50 component Enphase Energy (ENPH) easily beat second-quarter estimates and guided higher for the current quarter as shares surged more than 15%.
Teva Pharmaceuticals (TEVA) announced a $75 million deal to settle opioid claims in West Virginia on Wednesday. Teva stock skyrocketed nearly 20%.
The Innovator IBD 50 ETF (FFTY) climbed 1.3%, with Enphase being the best-performing component.
Follow Michael Molinski on Twitter @IMmolinski
YOU MAY ALSO LIKE:
Time To Tweak Your Investments To An Inflationary Environment?
Get Full Access To IBD Stock Lists And Ratings
Is XOM A Buy Now After Q1 Earnings?
Get Free IBD Newsletters: Market Prep | Tech Report | How To Invest
Market Skids With Fed Rate Hike Due; Hot Stock Pops Late


Stocks rose Wednesday ahead of the Federal Reserve's afternoon interest rate decision.
Every weekday the CNBC Investing Club with Jim Cramer holds a "Morning Meeting" livestream at 10:20 a.m. ET. Here's a recap of Wednesday's key moments. Alphabet, Microsoft rally ahead of Fed Cramer: Now could be the time to buy Humana Earnings tonight: Qualcomm, Meta, Ford The Fed is winning against inflation 1. Alphabet, Microsoft rally ahead of Fed Stocks rose Wednesday ahead of the Federal Reserve's afternoon interest rate decision, buoyed by better-than-feared earnings reports from Club holdings Alphabet (GOOGL) and Microsoft (MSFT). But whether the market, especially Wednesday's strong Nasdaq , can hold on to those gains depends on whether the Fed hikes rates the expected 75 basis points, as it did last month, or goes for a more aggressive move or posture. Google-parent Alphabet, in particular, has distinguished itself as a best-in-class platform for advertisers from the Snap (SNAP), which fell markedly short of expectations last week and saw its stock crushed. "This is proving to be the phrase for tech: better than feared," Jim Cramer said during Wednesday's "Morning Meeting." We'll see if that proves the case when Club holdings Meta Platforms (META) and Qualcomm report earnings after the bell. Club holdings Amazon (AMZN) and Apple (AAPL) report results after the closing bell Thursday. 2. Cramer: Now could be the time to buy Humana Humana (HUM) reported an earnings beat of $8.67 versus an expected $7.67, but failed to get investors excited after raising the full-year outlook by just 25 cents. While the company could have raised its forecast even more, we believe that Humana's decision to instead invest 75 cents earnings per share into supporting its 2023 Medicare Advantage membership growth is ultimately positive for the future of the company. Despite the upbeat quarter, the stock fell around 4%. Cramer said he believes the stock is a buy at these levels since the Medicare Advantage business is the most lucrative at Humana. However, the Club recently trimmed its holding of HUM at $488 near an all-time high, when UnitedHealth Group (UNH) drove healthcare stocks higher after reporting its quarterly results. 3. Earnings tonight: Ford, Qualcomm, Meta Club holdings Ford (F) as well as the aforementioned Qualcomm and Met report earnings after the closing bell Wednesday. We believe that Ford could see a boost from declining commodity costs, though the automaker's warranty costs are still a noticeable headwind. While Qualcomm CEO Cristiano Amon has a track record of delivering great quarters, the company's handset exposure in China could be a tough obstacle to overcome. This is a pivotal quarter for Meta. Some things we want to hear are that Reels is upending Tiktok and that spending is down. CEO Mark Zuckerberg must also say they're slowing hiring, if they don't want to rock investors' confidence in the company. 4. The Fed is winning against inflation The Fed will announce its latest interest rate hike Wednesday afternoon at 2 p.m. ET, followed 30 minutes later by a news conference with central bank Chairman Jerome Powell. As we mentioned earlier, analysts largely expect a 75-basis point rate increase to fight inflation. Cramer is OK with 75 but he's been calling for a 100 basis points for a while now. Cramer has said repeatedly that he believes the Fed is winning its battle against inflation because commodity prices have largely rolled over but have not shown up in the monthly economic numbers. Inflation has been a common problem for companies, especially for retailers with a number of them preannouncing profit warnings ahead of issuing quarterly numbers. (Jim Cramer's Charitable Trust is long F, GOOGL, HUM, META, MSFT and QCOM. See here for a full list of the stocks.) As a subscriber to the CNBC Investing Club with Jim Cramer, you will receive a trade alert before Jim makes a trade. Jim waits 45 minutes after sending a trade alert before buying or selling a stock in his charitable trust's portfolio. If Jim has talked about a stock on CNBC TV, he waits 72 hours after issuing the trade alert before executing the trade. THE ABOVE INVESTING CLUB INFORMATION IS SUBJECT TO OUR TERMS AND CONDITIONS AND PRIVACY POLICY , TOGETHER WITH OUR DISCLAIMER . NO FIDUCIARY OBLIGATION OR DUTY EXISTS, OR IS CREATED, BY VIRTUE OF YOUR RECEIPT OF ANY INFORMATION PROVIDED IN CONNECTION WITH THE INVESTING CLUB. NO SPECIFIC OUTCOME OR PROFIT IS GUARANTEED.
Getty Images; Reuters


With inflation at a four-decade high, the job market strong and consumers still spending, the Federal Reserve is under pressure to continue raising interest rates aggressively.
WASHINGTON (AP) — With inflation at a four-decade high, the job market strong and consumers still spending, the Federal Reserve is under pressure to continue raising interest rates aggressively.
When it ends its latest policy meeting Wednesday afternoon, the Fed is expected to impose a second consecutive three-quarter-point hike in its benchmark interest rate, raising it to a range of 2.25% to 2.5%. It will be the Fed’s fourth rate hike since March. Since then, the central bank has tightened credit ever more aggressively.
A news conference that Chair Jerome Powell will hold Wednesday — and whatever signals, if any, he sends about the Fed’s next steps — will draw intense interest.
By raising borrowing rates, the Fed makes it costlier to take out a mortgage or an auto or business loan. In turn, consumers and businesses will likely borrow and spend less, cooling the economy and slowing inflation.
The Fed’s hikes have already led to a doubling of the average rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage in the past year, to 5.5%, and home sales have tumbled. The central bank is betting it can slow growth just enough to tame inflation yet not so much as to trigger a recession — a risk that many analysts fear may end badly.
Some analysts point to signs that the economy is slowing and might even have shrunk in the first half of the year. As a result, they worry that the Fed could end up tightening credit too much, too fast, and end up causing a downturn that would lead to layoffs and rising unemployment.
In the meantime, the surge in inflation and fear of a recession have eroded consumer confidence and stirred public anxiety about the economy, which is sending frustratingly mixed signals. With the November midterm elections nearing, Americans’ discontent has diminished President Joe Biden’s public approval ratings and increased the likelihood that the Democrats will lose control of the House and Senate.
On Thursday, when the government estimates the gross domestic product for the April-June period, some economists think it may show that the economy shrank for a second straight quarter. That would meet one longstanding assumption for when a recession has begun.
But economists say that wouldn’t mean a recession had started. During those same six months when the economy might have contracted, employers added 2.7 million jobs — more than were gained in most entire years before the pandemic. Wages are also rising at a healthy pace, with many employers still struggling to attract and retain enough workers.
The definition of recession that is most widely accepted is the one determined by the National Bureau of Economic Research, a group of economists whose Business Cycle Dating Committee defines a recession as “a significant decline in economic activity that is spread across the economy and lasts more than a few months.”
The committee assesses a range of factors before publicly declaring the death of an economic expansion and the birth of a recession — and often does so well after the fact.


As investors await another jumbo-sized rate increase from the Federal Reserve, they are taking the temperature of a weeks-long U.S. stock market rally that followed a vicious first-half selloff.
NEW YORK, July 27 (Reuters) - As investors await another jumbo-sized rate increase from the Federal Reserve, they are taking the temperature of a weeks-long U.S. stock market rally that followed a vicious first-half selloff.
Even after Tuesday's sharp fall, the S&P 500 remained up 7% from its June 16 low, buoyed in part by expectations that the Fed will pause its aggressive rate hikes early next year and a recent decline in commodity prices that investors hope will help ease inflation.
So far, the bounce has its share of doubters. Three rallies of comparable magnitude have already wilted this year, with stocks sliding to new lows each time. Blackrock, the world’s largest asset manager, on Monday warned investors that more volatility lay ahead and said it was underweight developed market equities on expectations that inflation will stay tenacious.
Register now for FREE unlimited access to Reuters.com Register
"We think this is a bear market suckers' rally," said Steve Chiavarone, senior portfolio manager at Federated Hermes, who believes the Fed will remain hawkish longer than expected and has reduced his equity exposure as the S&P pushed higher over the last few weeks.
Expectations that the Fed will end its market-bruising rate hikes sooner than forecast have helped power stocks higher. Nearly two-thirds of investors now believe the Fed funds rate will stand at 3.5% or lower by March 2023, up from just a third a month ago with that view, according to CME. read more
Investors expect the Fed to deliver another 75 basis points of tightening Wednesday, after already raising rates by 150 basis points so far this year. FEDWATCH Hopes for moderation after that could be dashed if consumer prices remain stubbornly high in coming weeks - repeating a scenario that dragged stocks lower this year, Blackrock’s strategists wrote.
"Inflation data could surprise to the upside – and cause markets to rapidly price a higher rate path once again. Result: another equities sell-off," BlackRock strategists wrote.
Data from the Wells Fargo Investment Institute showed the severity of the current bear market - which saw the S&P 500 fall as much as 23.6% below its January high - may depend on whether the economy is in a recession. read more
Bear markets accompanied by a recession have lasted an average of 18 months, during which stocks fell an average of 35.8%. Without a recession, bear markets lasted an average of 5.9 months with an average decline of 27.9%, the bank’s data showed.
On Sunday, U.S. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen acknowledged the risk of a recession but said it was not inevitable. read more Still, parts of the market have continued to reflect investor unease, even as broader averages have bounced.
More stocks have posted new lows than new highs on the Nasdaq Composite Index for 76 straight days, the longest such stretch in 20 years, said Willie Delwiche, investment strategist at All Star Charts. The index is up nearly 9% from its June low.
"Until that relationship changes, it's premature to say that a bottom is in place," Delwiche said.
More optimistic investors point to an array of signals indicating bearish sentiment may have reached a crescendo in recent weeks, potentially exhausting sellers and making it easier for stocks to rebound.
A fund manager survey from BoFA Global Research last week showed expectations for global growth and profits at all-time lows and cash levels at their highest in two decades, two contrarian indicators the banks' strategists said could indicate greater stock gains ahead.
Short interest in the S&P 500, meanwhile, recently stood at its highest level since the depths of the coronavirus selloff in 2020, a signal that has occurred during past market bottoms, the bank's strategists wrote.
"We think it’s possible that the S&P 500 has already bottomed, and if it hasn’t, will find a bottom during the third quarter,” said Lori Calvasina, head of U.S. equity strategy at RBC Capital Markets, in a note to investors.
Calvasina recently added stock exposure, betting that a possible recession has already been baked into prices. read more
Christopher Murphy, co-head of derivatives strategy at Susquehanna International Group, believes this week’s earnings reports - which include results from heavyweights such as Apple Inc and Meta Platforms– could play a key part in determining whether stocks can continue rallying. read more
For the time being, "the risks to the market are very well known right now" and already reflected in prices, he said.
Register now for FREE unlimited access to Reuters.com Register
Reporting by David Randall; Editing by David Gregorio
Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.


The S&P 500 has moved higher after the Federal Reserve's first three rate hikes in 2022.
Rate hikes have not been so scary for markets in 2022. In fact, Wall Street appears to be cheering an aggressive Federal Reserve, at least in the short term. After each of the central bank's three rate hikes this year, stocks have finished the day solidly higher. That is a departure from the previous decades, when the market's reaction to hikes was more tepid. "Historically, the average performance of the S & P 500 on days that the Fed has raised rates has been weaker than if policymakers decided on other actions. However, the current tightening cycle has seen much more positive reactions by equities to rate hikes," Bespoke Investment Group said in a note to clients on Wednesday. Prior to this Fed cycle, rate hikes since 1994 were greeted with an average increase of 19.1 basis points by the S & P 500, according to Bespoke. A basis point is equal to 0.01%. The market moves this cycle, however, have pushed that average gain to 33.6 basis points. Part of the reason for the abnormal reactions in 2022 could be the decades-high inflation rate. While rate hikes can slow growth and make future cash flows look less attractive, inflation is the top worry for many investors. "The biggest risk to the US economy is not the Fed raising rates. It is inflation which is hurting consumer and business confidence and pricing consumers out of a new home, a car, gas and meals on the table," billionaire hedge fund manager Bill Ackman said in a series of tweets Tuesday . If the Fed can bring inflation under control quickly, the reasoning goes, the U.S. economy and stock market can get back on a more normal growth path and avoid a long period of so-called "stagflation." Some traders have now even started to bet on rate cuts next year, suggesting that some on Wall Street expect the Fed to quickly focus on supporting the economy once inflation starts to retreat. To be sure, the positive reaction to the Fed's hikes has not been long lasting. After both the May and June hikes, the gains for the S & P 500 were erased in the following session. The Fed has also been signaling its rate hike plans ahead of time, so investors may have been pricing in those moves in between meetings. And that may be contributing to the S & P 500 sliding more than 16% year to date. The Fed is expected to hike rates by another by 75 basis points on Wednesday afternoon. (75 basis points equals 0.75%)


As investors prepare for another rate increase from the Federal Reserve on Wednesday, recent history shows these stocks have won big on such days
As investors prepare for another likely three-quarter point increase from the Federal Reserve on Wednesday, a glance at recent history indicates that certain stocks have been winning big on such days and could triumph again. Markets have recently grown comfortable with the prospect of a three-quarters point move that's expected from the central bank as it tries to tame rocketing prices. At the same time, investors are closely watching Fed Chairman Jerome Powell for clues as to what the central bank might do at its next meeting in September, with many anticipating a still tougher Fed in the months ahead . If history is any indicator, markets have liked recent rate hikes from the Fed . The S & P 500 rallied 2.24%, 3% and 1.46%, respectively, on the last three days that the Fed tightened policy. Those reactions have been stronger than the responses seen in 1994, with the 3% rally in May ranking as the fifth best Fed day out of a total of 228, according to an analysis from Bespoke Investment Group. Should that pattern persist, these stocks that won big during the last three hiking days may triumph again on Wednesday. To find potential winners this time around, CNBC Pro used FactSet data to search for names with the biggest median move on the last three Fed days and that consistently gained at least 1% in the subsequent market rallies. The screen uncovered a host of beaten-up stocks tied to the consumer, which might benefit from the Fed quashing surging prices and dampening economic growth. But to be sure, while many of the stocks do benefit when the market rallies, the list also turned up several highly volatile and risky names. Here are 20 stocks that saw the largest Fed Day moves, on average: Several beaten-up technology stocks made the cut, including battered chip stock Advanced Micro Devices , Tesla and social media giant Meta Platforms . Shares of all three companies are trading at least 35% off their 52-week highs, with Meta Platforms down a whopping 57%. On average, the stocks added 5.5%, 5.4% and 4.8%, respectively, over the last three Fed decision days. Some popular consumer-focused stocks such as Norwegian Cruise Line and Starbucks also made the cut and rallied an average of more than 5% each. The cruise line company enjoyed a median move of 5.5% during those last three Fed days, with shares rising the most on March 16 (5.9%). Starbucks soared nearly 10% alone on May 4. Enphase Energy on average saw the biggest median gain (7.6%) within the group and Tuesday reported strong quarterly results . Shares of the solar energy equipment company have rallied more than 36% this year as natural gas prices surged. A recent note from Goldman Sachs called Enphase one of a number of solar names that could outperform and beat expectations this earnings season. Etsy , Moderna and Boeing also made the list of Fed day winners.


Loonie at 77.72 U.S. cents
The Canadian dollar CADUSD strengthened against its U.S. counterpart on Wednesday as oil prices rose, but the move was limited as investors braced for another oversized interest rate hike by the Federal Reserve.
The price of oil, one of Canada’s major exports, climbed as a report of lower inventories in the United States and cuts in Russian gas flows to Europe offset concern about weaker demand and a looming U.S. rate hike.
U.S. crude prices were up 0.7% at $95.66 a barrel.
Investors widely expect the Fed to increase interest rates by another 75 basis points later on Wednesday, with focus likely to shift to how deeply signs of an economic slowdown have registered with the central bank’s policymakers.
Investors are anticipating that rapid tightening by the Fed and the Bank of Canada will hurt economic growth. Both the U.S. and Canadian yield curves have inverted in recent weeks, sending a potential signal of recession risk ahead.
Canada’s GDP data for May, which is due to be released on Friday, could offer clues on the strength of the domestic economy.
The Canadian dollar was trading 0.1% higher at 1.2867 to the greenback, or 77.72 U.S. cents, after trading in a range of 1.2848 to 1.2893.
The loonie’s modest gain came as upbeat quarterly reports from Microsoft and Alphabet lifted sentiment on Wall Street.
The Canadian 10-year yield eased 5.6 basis points to 2.769%, trading about 34 basis points below the Canadian 2-year yield.
Be smart with your money. Get the latest investing insights delivered right to your inbox three times a week, with the Globe Investor newsletter. Sign up today.


Fed is expected to impose a second consecutive three-quarter-point hike in its benchmark interest rate today, raising it to a range of 2.25% to 2.5%
With inflation at a four-decade high, the job market strong and consumers still spending, the Federal Reserve is under pressure to continue raising interest rates aggressively.
When it ends its latest policy meeting Wednesday afternoon, the Fed is expected to impose a second consecutive three-quarter-point hike in its benchmark interest rate, raising it to a range of 2.25% to 2.5%. It will be the Fed’s fourth rate hike since March. Since then, the central bank has tightened credit ever more aggressively.
A news conference that Chair Jerome Powell will hold Wednesday – and whatever signals, if any, he sends about the Fed’s next steps – will draw intense interest.
By raising borrowing rates, the Fed makes it costlier to take out a mortgage or an auto or business loan. In turn, consumers and businesses will likely borrow and spend less, cooling the economy and slowing inflation. The Fed’s hikes have already led to a doubling of the average rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage in the past year, to 5.5%, and home sales have tumbled. The central bank is betting it can slow growth just enough to tame inflation yet not so much as to trigger a recession – a risk that many analysts fear may end badly.
Some analysts point to signs that the economy is slowing and might even have shrunk in the first half of the year. As a result, they worry that the Fed could end up tightening credit too much, too fast, and end up causing a downturn that would lead to layoffs and rising unemployment.
In the meantime, the surge in inflation and fear of a recession have eroded consumer confidence and stirred public anxiety about the economy, which is sending frustratingly mixed signals. With the November midterm elections nearing, Americans’ discontent has diminished President Joe Biden’s public approval ratings and increased the likelihood that the Democrats will lose control of the House and Senate.
On Thursday, when the government estimates the gross domestic product for the April-June period, some economists think it may show that the economy shrank for a second straight quarter. That would meet one longstanding assumption for when a recession has begun.
But economists say that wouldn’t mean a recession had started. During those same six months when the economy might have contracted, employers added 2.7 million jobs – more than were gained in most entire years before the pandemic. Wages are also rising at a healthy pace, with many employers still struggling to attract and retain enough workers.
The definition of recession that is most widely accepted is the one determined by the National Bureau of Economic Research, a group of economists whose Business Cycle Dating Committee defines a recession as “a significant decline in economic activity that is spread across the economy and lasts more than a few months.” The committee assesses a range of factors before publicly declaring the death of an economic expansion and the birth of a recession – and often does so well after the fact.
Be smart with your money. Get the latest investing insights delivered right to your inbox three times a week, with the Globe Investor newsletter. Sign up today.


Strong financial results from Alphabet, Boeing and other corporate bellwethers are driving up stocks.
Stocks opened Wednesday, with a raft of corporate earnings reports sparking a sharp rebound from losses a day earlier. Traders are prepared for what most expect to be a sharp interest rate hike by the Federal Reserve to cool surging inflation.
The Wall Street's benchmark S&P 500 index rose 48 points to 3,969, or 1.2%, as of 10:15 Eastern time, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average added 0.4%. The tech-heavy Nasdaq posted the strongest gains, 2.4%.
Shares of Google's parent company Alphabet are gaining after it reported second-quarter numbers overnight that investors seem to like, and Boeing and Microsoft are also rising on their second-quarter report. Investors will turn their focus later today to an expected decision on interest rates from the Federal Reserve.
Boeing shares rose 3.2% in premarket after the aerospace company said it delivered more planes in the first quarter than it has since the start of the pandemic. Shares of technology heavyweights Microsoft and Google parent Alphabet rose after their latest quarterly reports. Ford and Facebook parent Meta report results after the bell.
The Fed on Wednesday is expected to announce an increase of up to three-quarters of a percentage point in its benchmark interest rate, triple its usual margin. Investors worry such aggressive action by the Fed and other central banks in Europe and Asia to control inflation that is at multi-decade highs might derail global economic growth.
"The main risk at this stage is in fact an inflation 'overkill' with monetary tightening too abrupt, unnecessarily pushing up the unemployment rate," Thomas Costerg of Pictet Wealth Management said in a report. Costerg said most economic indicators and lower commodity prices already point to slower inflation ahead.\
The Dow dropped 0.7% Tuesday, while the Nasdaq composite closed 1.9% lower as tech stocks retreated.
In energy markets, benchmark U.S. crude rose 99 cents to $95.97 per barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Brent crude, the price basis for international oils, added 97 cents to $100.44 per barrel in London.


As is common with most credit cards, the Apple Card's interest rate on overdue balances is steadily rising as the Federal Reserve continues to...
As is common with most credit cards, the Apple Card's interest rate on overdue balances is steadily rising as the Federal Reserve continues to raise its benchmark overnight interest rate in an attempt to slow inflation in the United States.
As of July 1, the Apple Card's variable APRs now range from 12.49% to 23.49% based on creditworthiness, compared to 11.74% to 22.74% previously. This is in line with the Fed's 0.75 percentage point increase to its overnight rate in June.
Apple Card interest rates were as low as 10.99% to 21.99% for much of 2020 and 2021 as the Fed lowered rates in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
According to The Wall Street Journal, the Fed is expected to announce another 0.75 percentage point increase to its overnight rate later today, which means the Apple Card's APR range will likely see another increase to 13.24% to 24.24% based on creditworthiness. This would be the Apple Card's highest interest rate range since 2019.
All in all, if you are carrying an overdue balance on your Apple Card, be aware that interest charges have been increasing and will cost you extra.
Apple Card remains limited to the United States.


With the Federal Reserve's latest interest rate hike -- its fourth since March -- consumers again will face new choices in where to park their money for the most yield and how best to minimize their borrowing costs.
Editor’s Note: This is an updated version of a story that originally ran on May 5, 2022.
With the Federal Reserve’s interest rate hike on Wednesday – its fourth since March – consumers again face the question of where to park their savings for the best return and how to minimize their borrowing costs.
In its bid to beat back high inflation, the US central bank hiked its overnight lending rate another 75 basis points to a range of 2.25% to 2.50%. And more rate hikes are anticipated later this year.
“With inflation running north of 9%, we’re not at the finish line and there will be more interest rate increases to come in the months ahead,” said Greg McBride, chief financial analyst at Bankrate.com.
Here are a few ways to situate your money so that you can benefit from rising rates, and protect yourself from their downside.
Credit cards: Minimize the bite
When the fed funds rate – also known as the overnight bank lending rate – goes up, it will push up various lending rates that banks offer their customers. So you can expect to see a hike in your credit card rates within a few statements, McBride said.
Before the Fed’s rate hike Wednesday, the average credit card rate was 17.25%, up from 16.3% at the start of the year, according to Bankrate.com.
If you’re carrying balances on your credit cards – which typically have high variable interest rates – consider transferring them to a zero-rate balance transfer card that locks in a zero rate for between 12 and 21 months.
“That insulates you from [future] rate hikes, and it gives you a clear runway to pay off your debt once and for all,” McBride said. “Less debt and more savings will enable you to better weather rising interest rates, and is especially valuable if the economy sours.”
Just be sure to find out what, if any, fees you will have to pay (e.g., a balance transfer fee or annual fee), and what the penalties will be if you make a late payment or miss a payment during the zero-rate period. The best strategy is always to pay off as much of your existing balance as possible – and to do so on time every month – before the zero-rate period ends. Otherwise, any remaining balance will be subject to a new interest rate that could be higher than you had before if rates continue to rise.
If you don’t transfer to a zero-rate balance card, another option might be to get a relatively low fixed-rate personal loan.
Home loans: Lock in fixed rates now
Mortgage rates have been rising over the past year. And that is likely to continue.
The average 30-year fixed rate mortgage, for instance, recently jumped to 5.54% from 3.22% at the start of the year, according to Freddie Mac.
If you’re close to buying a home or refinancing one, lock in the lowest fixed rate available to you as soon as possible.
So if you’re close to buying a home or refinancing one, lock in the lowest fixed rate available to you as soon as possible.
That said, “don’t jump into a large purchase that isn’t right for you just because interest rates might go up. Rushing into the purchase of a big-ticket item like a house or car that doesn’t fit in your budget is a recipe for trouble, regardless of what interest rates do in the future,” said Texas-based certified financial planner Lacy Rogers.
If you already have a variable rate home equity line of credit, and you used part of it to do a home improvement project, McBride recommends asking your lender if they would be willing to fix the rate on your outstanding balance, effectively creating a fixed-rate home equity loan. Say you have a $50,000 line of credit but only used $20,000 for a renovation, you would ask to have a fixed rate applied to the $20,000.
If that’s not possible, consider paying off that balance by taking out a HELOC with another lender at a lower promotional rate, McBride suggested.
Bank savings: Shop around
If you’ve been stashing cash at big banks that have been paying next to nothing in interest for savings accounts, don’t expect that to change just because the Fed is raising rates, McBride said. That’s because the big banks are swimming in deposits and don’t need to worry about attracting new customers.
That’s because the big banks are swimming in deposits and don’t need to worry about attracting new customers.
Thanks to the big players’ paltry rates, the average bank savings rate is now just 0.11%, up from 0.06% in January, per Bankrate.com. The average rate on a one-year CD is 0.51%, up from 0.14% at the start of the year.
But online banks, which are looking to keep current accounts and attract more business, are likely to offer far better rates. So it’s worth shopping around.
So shop around. Today some online accounts are paying up to 2%. If you want to make a switch, however, be sure to only choose those online banks and credit unions that are federally insured.
Another high-yield savings option
Given today’s high rates of inflation, Series I savings bonds may be attractive because they’re designed to preserve the buying power of your money. They’re currently paying 9.62%. But that rate will only be in effect for six months and only if you buy an I-Bond by the end of October, after which the rate is scheduled to adjust. If inflation falls, the rate on the I-Bond will fall, too.
There are some limitations. You can only invest $10,000 a year. You can’t redeem it in the first year. And if you cash out between years two and five, you will forfeit the previous three months of interest.
“In other words, I-Bonds are not a replacement for your savings account,” McBride said.
Nevertheless, they preserve the buying power of your $10,000 if you don’t need to touch it for at least five years, and that’s not nothing. They also may be of particular benefit to people planning to retire in the next 5 to 10 years since they will serve as a safe annual investment they can tap if needed in their first few years of retirement.
If inflation proves sticky despite higher interest rates, you might also consider putting some money into Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities (TIPS), said Yung-Yu Ma, chief investment strategist at BMO Wealth Management.
Stocks: Seek broad exposure and pricing power
The confusing mix of factors at play in the markets today makes it tough to say which sector, asset class or company is certain to do well in a rising rate environment, Ma noted.
“It’s not just rising rates and inflation, there are geopolitical concerns going on… And we have a slowdown that may lead to a recession or maybe it won’t… It’s an uncommon, even rare, mix of multiple factors,” he said.
So, for example, financial service companies typically do well in a rising rate environment because, among other things, they can make more money on loans. But if there’s a slowdown, a bank’s overall loan volume could go down.
That’s why Ma suggests making sure your overall portfolio is broadly diversified across equities, with some exposure to commodities, real estate and maybe even a small amount in precious metals.
“Look at being diversified across areas that historically have done well in rising-rate and inflationary environments,” he said.
The idea is to hedge your bets, since some of those areas will come out ahead, but not all of them will.
That said, if you’re planning to invest in a specific stock, consider the company’s pricing power and how consistent the demand is likely to be for their product. For example, technology companies typically don’t benefit from rising rates. But since cloud and software service providers issue subscription pricing to clients, those may rise with inflation, said certified financial planner Doug Flynn, co-founder of Flynn Zito Capital Management.
Bonds: Go short
To the extent you already own bonds, the prices on your bonds will fall in a rising rate environment. But if you’re in the market to buy bonds you can benefit from that trend, especially if you purchase short-term bonds, meaning one to three years, since prices have fallen more than usual relative to long-term bonds. Normally, they move lower in tandem.
“There’s a pretty good opportunity in short-term bonds, which are severely dislocated,” Flynn said.
Muni prices have dropped significantly, yields have risen, and many states are in better financial shape than they were pre-pandemic, he noted.
Other assets that may do well are so-called floating rate instruments from companies that need to raise cash, Flynn said. The floating rate is often benchmarked against the fed funds rate, so it will go up whenever the Fed hikes rates.
But if you’re not a bond expert, you’d be better off investing in a fund that specializes in making the most of a rising rate environment through floating rate instruments and other bond income strategies. Flynn recommends looking for a strategic income or flexible income mutual fund, which will hold an array of different types of bonds.
“I don’t see a lot of these choices in 401(k)s,” he said. But you can always ask your 401(k) provider to include the option in your employer’s plan.


The Chinese government "forcibly detained" an employee of the Federal Reserve several times, tapped his phones and computers, and threatened his family in order to get sensitive data about the American economy, it has been alleged.
The Chinese government “forcibly detained” an employee of the Federal Reserve several times, tapped his phones and computers, and threatened his family in order to get sensitive data about the American economy, it has been alleged.
An investigation by the US Senate found that the employee was detained at least four separate times when he visited Shanghai in 2019.
US Senate investigators allege that Chinese officials first detained the man in his hotel room after monitoring his telephone conversations.
The Fed employee was accused of “committing crimes against China,” according to the report.
US investigators also claim that Chinese government agents “allegedly tapped the employee’s phones and computers, and copied the contact information of other Federal Reserve officials from the individual’s WeChat account.”
On three other occasions, Chinese agents approached the Fed employee and demanded that he share confidential data, according to the report, which was published by the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
The alleged incidents took place in Shanghai in 2019. ZUMAPRESS.com
The report does not specify whether the Fed employee divulged any sensitive data to Chinese authorities.
The Senate referred the case to the State Department and the FBI, whose agents interviewed the man in question.
The report said that the incidents are part of a broader campaign by China to “target, influence, and undermine the US Federal Reserve” since at least 2013.
It hit out at Beijing for its “long-running and brazen actions” which target “certain Federal Reserve employees.”
The Fed was criticized in the report for failing to take adequate measures to safeguard data and beef up security for its personnel.
“As our investigation reveals, the Chinese government is using every tool at its disposal to infiltrate and steal valuable information,” Sen. Rob Portman (R-Oh.), the ranking member of the committee, said.
A spokesperson for the Chinese embassy in Washington, DC, has denied the allegations. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian is pictured above. AP
“We cannot let the American taxpayer continue to unwittingly fund China’s military and economic rise which is why our report makes strong recommendations to enhance and protect our Federal Reserve.”
The investigation’s findings were first reported by Insider.
But Fed Chair Jerome Powell dismissed Portman’s concerns. In a letter to Portman which was obtained by Politico, Powell wrote that he had “strong concerns about assertions and implications” from the report.
Powell insisted that “everything we do at the Federal Reserve is in service to our public mission to American households, businesses, and communities.”
The allegations were contained in a report issued by a US Senate panel. Getty Images
“We are confident that Federal Reserve staff understand their obligations and are committed to maintaining both the confidentiality of sensitive information and the integrity of our workforce,” Powell wrote in a letter Monday.
“Because we understand that some actors aim to exploit any vulnerabilities, our processes, controls and technology are robust and updated regularly. We respectfully reject any suggestions to the contrary.”
The Post has sought comment from the Chinese embassy in Washington, DC.
A spokesperson for the Chinese government denied the claims and hit out at “Cold War zero-sum thinking” of certain members of Congress.
“The cooperation between China and the US in economic, financial and other fields is open and aboveboard, which has played an important role in enhancing mutual understanding and mutual trust between the two countries,” the spokesperson told The Wall Street Journal.


The U.S. government bond market is sending a fresh batch of signals that investors are increasingly convinced the Federal Reserve's aggressive actions to tame inflation will result in recession.
A Specialist Trader works inside his post on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) in New York City, U.S., January 21, 2022. REUTERS/Brendan McDermid
NEW YORK, July 27 (Reuters) - The U.S. government bond market is sending a fresh batch of signals that investors are increasingly convinced the Federal Reserve's aggressive actions to tame inflation will result in recession.
The shape of the yield curve, which plots the return on all Treasury securities, is seen as an indicator of the future state of health of the economy, as inversions of the curve have been a reliable sign of looming recession.
While Fed Chair Jerome Powell on Wednesday said that he does not see the economy currently in a recession, spreads between different pairings of Treasury securities - and derivatives tied to them - have in past weeks moved into or toward an "inversion" when the shorter dated of the pair yields more than the longer one. These join another widely followed yield spread relationship - between 2- and 10-year notes - that has been in inversion for most of this month. read more
Register now for FREE unlimited access to Reuters.com Register
"Curves are flattening and some are negative. They're ultimately all telling you the same thing," said Eric Theoret, global macro strategist at Manulife Investment Management.
A steepening curve typically reflects expectations of stronger economic activity, higher inflation and interest rates. A flattening curve can signal expectations of rate hikes in the near term and a weaker economic outlook. read more
The Fed is aiming to achieve a so-called "soft landing" that does not entail an outright contraction in U.S. economic output and the rise in joblessness that typically accompanies that. But the moves in the bond market over the past week show waning confidence in the Fed's ability to achieve so benign an outcome.
Some of those moves reversed slightly on Wednesday, with rates at the short end of the curve turning lower on expectations of the Fed being less likely to continue with super-sized hikes.
On Wednesday the Fed raised its benchmark overnight interest rate by 0.75% to a range of between 2.25% and 2.50% as it flagged weakening economic data. Powell said on Wednesday that achieving a soft landing for the economy was challenging. read more
The curve is indicating that the Fed will have to start cutting rates after hiking.
The part of the U.S. Treasury yield curve that compares yields on two-year Treasuries with yields on 10-year government bonds has been inverted for most of the past month and is around the most negative its been since 2000 on a closing price basis.
Powell, however, has in recent months said that the short-end of the yield curve was a more reliable warning of an upcoming recession.
"The first 18 months of the yield curve has 100% of the explanatory power of the yield curve, and it makes sense ... because if it's inverted that means the Fed is going to cut which means the economy is weak", he said in March.
Some analysts pointed to another measure, the differential between what money markets expect the three-month federal funds rate to be in 18 months and the current three-month federal funds rate. That went briefly into negative territory on Tuesday, said George Goncalves, head of U.S. Macro Strategy at MUFG.
That spread - measured through overnight indexed swap (OIS) rates, which reflect traders' expectations on the federal funds rate - was about 230 basis points in March.
"It's very similar to looking at the Treasury curve, these are all curves that trade with tiny spreads with each other," said Subadra Rajappa head of U.S. rates strategy at Societe Generale.
Another measurement of the curve, the 2-year forward rate for 3-month bills , is around the flattest since June 2021.
Fed economists have said that near-term forward yield spreads - namely the differential between the three-month Treasury yield and what the market expects that yield to be in 18 months - are more reliable predictors of a recession than the differential between long-maturity Treasury yields and their short-maturity counterparts.
That spread has not gone negative, though it has narrowed significantly from over 250 basis points in March to about 70 basis points this week, said MUFG's Goncalves.
Another part of the curve that compares the yield on three-month Treasury bills and 10-year notes has flattened dramatically over the past few weeks, from nearly 220 basis points in May to around 15 basis points this week although it steepened after Powell's remarks.
Separately, futures contracts tied to the Fed's policy rate showed this week that benchmark U.S. interest rates will peak in January 2023, earlier than the February reading they gave last week. read more
"Inverting yield curves, rising inflation, weakening housing data, and slumping surveys have all driven the increase (in recession probability) in the US," wrote Credit Suisse analysts in a research note on Tuesday, forecasting that the probability of the United States being in recession 6 and 12 months ahead is approximately 25%.
"It is likely recession probabilities rise further in the coming months if policy rate hikes cause further curve inversion and cyclical data continue to deteriorate," they added.
Register now for FREE unlimited access to Reuters.com Register
Reporting by Davide Barbuscia; additional reporting by Gertrude Chavez-Dreyfuss and Dan Burns; editing by Megan Davies and Sandra Maler
Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.


The Federal Reserve is expected to raise interest rates by another 0.75% on Wednesday afternoon.
The Federal Reserve is expected to again raise interest rates this afternoon as it continues actions to tame multi-decade highs in inflation.
The central bank will likely ratchet short-term borrowing costs up another 0.75% at the conclusion of its meeting Wednesday.
Doing so would lift the federal funds rate to a target range between 2.25% and 2.5%, matching highs from its most recent rate hiking cycle, which ended in mid-2019.
By making it more expensive to borrow, Fed Chairman Jerome Powell and his colleagues at the central bank hope to dampen the economic activity that has, in part, led price increases.
Inflation remains at levels unseen since the early 1980s, with prices rising 9.1% in June.
The question investors will be asking on Wednesday is: How much further will interest rates have to rise to cool inflation back to the Fed's 2% target? And: can the Fed raise interest rates without tightening economic activity so much that it triggers its own recession?
The Fed will release its policy statement at 2 p.m. ET followed by Powell's press conference at 2:30 p.m. ET.
Federal Reserve Board Chairman Jerome Powell speaks to reporters in Washington, U.S., June 15, 2022. REUTERS/Elizabeth Frantz
Brian Cheung is a reporter covering the Fed, economics, and banking for Yahoo Finance. You can follow him on Twitter @bcheungz.
Click here for the latest economic news and economic indicators to help you in your investing decisions
Read the latest financial and business news from Yahoo Finance
Download the Yahoo Finance app for Apple or Android
Follow Yahoo Finance on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, Flipboard, LinkedIn, and YouTube


The Federal Reserve hiked interest rates by an additional three-quarters of a percentage point. An economist explains what this means for the economy.
The U.S. Federal Reserve hiked its benchmark interest rate by a further three-quarters of a percentage point on July 27, 2022.
The jump was expected by most economists, although some had thought the central bank would go further in its attempts to put the brakes on soaring inflation and impose a full point increase.
The Conversation asked Arabinda Basistha, an economist at West Virginia University, to cast an eye over the Fed’s announcement and provide three key takeaways about what it tells us about the economy and future monetary policy.
1. More hawkish on monetary policy
On the surface, the headline decision to raise the interest rate by three-quarters of a percentage point is very much in line with what was expected. But a careful reading of the accompanying statement by the rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) reveals a slightly more hawkish Fed – one that’s more willing to act more aggressively in attempting to calm inflation – than in the last such meeting in June, when it likewise raised rates by three-quarters of a percentage point.
On that occasion, the vote was not unanimous – Kansas City Fed President Esther George opted to go for a half-point raise but was outvoted by colleagues who wanted the more aggressive 0.75% hike in a bid to bring down inflation.
But this time the vote was unanimously in favor of the three-quarter point rise, an indication that the Fed thinks it needs to act more decisively in the face of stubborn cost of living increases.
A notable change in the FOMC statement was the removal of any reference to supply chain disruptions due to COVID-19 in China. That line was in June’s statement, so its absence this time may indicate an easing of the supply chain issues that have contributed to inflation hitting a 40-year high.
That aside, Fed Chairman Jerome Powell stuck a downbeat note on inflation in the U.S., acknowledging in a news conference accompanying the announcement that June’s Consumer Price Index hitting 9.1% was “worse than expected.”
2. Expect a further rate hike in September
There is now a clear indication that that the FOMC will impose another rate hike when it meets in September. Powell noted in the news conference that another 0.75 percentage point rise in September “could be appropriate.”
At the same time, he acknowledged that with the latest increase, the Fed’s rate was pretty much in line with what economists call the “neutral” rate of interest – that is, a rate which neither stimulates the economy nor slows it down. The “neutral rate” is assumed to be around 2.5%; the latest FOMC hike puts the Feds’ policy rate up to a range of 2.25% to 2.5%.
So if there were to be another fairly sharp rise in the benchmark interest rate in September, it would push the Fed rate above the neutral rate – a move that would restrict economic growth. Again, this is an indication that the Fed is striking a more hawkish tone on monetary policy.
Powell did mention that a more moderate rate rise in September is possible, but that will likely depend on there being clear data showing price stabilization and an overall softening of the labor market. The job market has been strong for a while, with healthy monthly gains. The Fed will be looking for a decrease in the current high number of job vacancies, along with lower wage inflation, to signal a softening labor market before it can ease back on aggressive rate hikes.
3. Economic output is slowing, but no recession (yet)
In the statement accompanying the FOMC rate decision, the Fed noted that recent data showed “spending and production have softened.” Powell expanded on that a little, noting that business fixed investment – that is, how much companies spend on things like machines or factories – had gone down.
This acknowledgment that expenditure is softening wasn’t in June’s statement and is a clear sign that Fed officials believe the economy is slowing down, something Powell acknowledged. Yet at the same time, the Fed chair said the strength of the labor market indicated robust overall demand.
As such, it would seem Powell does not see the U.S. heading into recession, but rather, there will be some slowing down of the economy throughout the second half of this year.


Second-quarter results reveal that major banks are already benefiting from the Federal Reserve’s interest rate hikes.
Big U.S. banks have begun to reap the rewards of higher interest rates as the Federal Reserve combats inflation with a series of hikes, as evidenced by second-quarter results earlier this month. Thanks to higher rates and good loan growth, banks posted a 9% surge in second-quarter net interest income on a quarterly basis. This is a "key driver" for revenue that should continue into the third quarter, JPMorgan banking analysts led by Vivek Juneja said Wednesday in a note. In fact, the team recently updated their bank EPS estimates to "reflect a faster pace of Fed rate hikes" equal to two more 75 basis point increases through the end of the year. (The Fed is widely expected to raise its benchmark rate by 75 basis points later Wednesday.) While that could've made the sector attractive to investors, the problem is that banks are trading off whether the U.S. economy can avoid a recession. Parts of the yield curve have inverted in recent months, signaling concern that the Fed will induce a downturn. The KBW Bank Index has lost 20% this year, worse than the roughly 16% decline of the S & P 500, on concern that a recession will result in higher loan defaults. "Bank stocks remain attractively valued, but the key concern remains whether there will be a hard or soft landing and what impact Fed tightening will have," Juneja said. "We expect markets and bank stocks to remain choppy until there are clearer signs of the impact of persistently high inflation." Given that reality, Juneja prefers Regions Financial and PNC Financial Services Group , relatively smaller players which will benefit from higher rates while also having less of the Wall Street operations that have been affected by a collapse in investment banking revenue. JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America and Citigroup all have sizable investment banks in addition to large retail operations. "We prefer Regions due to less reliance on markets-related revenues and its excess liquidity, and PNC due to strong credit profile," the analyst said. Regions can gain from rising net interest income because of its "high level of liquid assets and conservative" assumptions around deposits, Juneja said. The analyst hiked the year-end price target on Regions to $24.50 from $23.50. PNC has a good track record of managing interest rates and credit risk well while also building "higher multiple fee-generating businesses," according to Juneja, who has a year-end price target of $191 on the bank. Both of the regional banks are rated "overweight" by the JPMorgan analysts. —With CNBC's Michael Bloom


WASHINGTON (AP) — With inflation at a four-decade high , the job market strong and consumers still spending , the Federal Reserve is under pressure to continue raising interest rates aggressively.
FILE - Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell speaks to the Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee, as he presents the Monetary Policy Report to the committee on Capitol Hill, on June 22, 2022, in Washington. With inflation raging at a four-decade high and the job market strong, the Fed is under pressure to raise interest rates aggressively. (AP Photo/Manuel Balce Ceneta, File)
FILE - Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell speaks to the Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee, as he presents the Monetary Policy Report to the committee on Capitol Hill, on June 22, 2022, in Washington. With inflation raging at a four-decade high and the job market strong, the Fed is under pressure to raise interest rates aggressively. (AP Photo/Manuel Balce Ceneta, File)
WASHINGTON (AP) — With inflation at a four-decade high , the job market strong and consumers still spending , the Federal Reserve is under pressure to continue raising interest rates aggressively.
When it ends its latest policy meeting Wednesday afternoon, the Fed is expected to impose a second consecutive three-quarter-point hike in its benchmark interest rate, raising it to a range of 2.25% to 2.5%. It will be the Fed’s fourth rate hike since March. Since then, with inflation setting new four-decade highs, the central bank has tightened credit ever more aggressively.
A news conference that Chair Jerome Powell will hold Wednesday — and whatever signals, if any, he sends about the Fed’s next steps — will draw intense interest.
By raising borrowing rates, the Fed makes it costlier to take out a mortgage or an auto or business loan. In turn, consumers and businesses will likely borrow and spend less, cooling the economy and slowing inflation. The Fed’s hikes have already led to a doubling of the average rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage in the past year, to 5.5%, and home sales have tumbled . The central bank is betting it can slow growth just enough to tame inflation yet not so much as to trigger a recession — a risk that many analysts fear may end badly.
ADVERTISEMENT
Some analysts point to signs that the economy is slowing and might even have shrunk in the first half of the year. As a result, they worry that the Fed could end up tightening credit too much, too fast, and end up causing a downturn that would lead to layoffs and rising unemployment.
In the meantime, the surge in inflation and fear of a recession have eroded consumer confidence and stirred public anxiety about the economy , which is sending frustratingly mixed signals . With the November midterm elections nearing, Americans’ discontent has diminished President Joe Biden’s public approval ratings and increased the likelihood that the Democrats will lose control of the House and Senate.
On Thursday, when the government estimates the gross domestic product for the April-June period, some economists think it may show that the economy shrank for a second straight quarter. That would meet one longstanding assumption for when a recession has begun.
But economists say that wouldn’t mean a recession had started . During those same six months when the economy might have contracted, employers added 2.7 million jobs — more than were gained in most entire years before the pandemic. Wages are also rising at a healthy pace, with many employers still struggling to attract and retain enough workers.
The definition of recession that is most widely accepted is the one determined by the National Bureau of Economic Research, a group of economists whose Business Cycle Dating Committee defines a recession as “a significant decline in economic activity that is spread across the economy and lasts more than a few months.” The committee assesses a range of factors before publicly declaring the death of an economic expansion and the birth of a recession — and often does so well after the fact.


The Federal Reserve is under pressure to continue raising interest rates aggressively with inflation at a four-decade high, the job market strong and consumers still spending.
FILE - Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell speaks to the Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee, as he presents the Monetary Policy Report to the committee on Capitol Hill, on June 22, 2022, in Washington. With inflation raging at a four-decade high and the job market strong, the Fed is under pressure to raise interest rates aggressively. (AP Photo/Manuel Balce Ceneta, File)
WASHINGTON – With inflation at a four-decade high, the job market strong and consumers still spending, the Federal Reserve is under pressure to continue raising interest rates aggressively.
When it ends its latest policy meeting Wednesday afternoon, the Fed is expected to impose a second consecutive three-quarter-point hike in its benchmark interest rate, raising it to a range of 2.25% to 2.5%. It will be the Fed's fourth rate hike since March. Since then, with inflation setting new four-decade highs, the central bank has tightened credit ever more aggressively.
A news conference that Chair Jerome Powell will hold Wednesday — and whatever signals, if any, he sends about the Fed’s next steps — will draw intense interest.
Ad
By raising borrowing rates, the Fed makes it costlier to take out a mortgage or an auto or business loan. In turn, consumers and businesses will likely borrow and spend less, cooling the economy and slowing inflation. The Fed's hikes have already led to a doubling of the average rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage in the past year, to 5.5%, and home sales have tumbled. The central bank is betting it can slow growth just enough to tame inflation yet not so much as to trigger a recession — a risk that many analysts fear may end badly.
Some analysts point to signs that the economy is slowing and might even have shrunk in the first half of the year. As a result, they worry that the Fed could end up tightening credit too much, too fast, and end up causing a downturn that would lead to layoffs and rising unemployment.
Ad
In the meantime, the surge in inflation and fear of a recession have eroded consumer confidence and stirred public anxiety about the economy, which is sending frustratingly mixed signals. With the November midterm elections nearing, Americans' discontent has diminished President Joe Biden's public approval ratings and increased the likelihood that the Democrats will lose control of the House and Senate.
On Thursday, when the government estimates the gross domestic product for the April-June period, some economists think it may show that the economy shrank for a second straight quarter. That would meet one longstanding assumption for when a recession has begun.
Ad
But economists say that wouldn’t mean a recession had started. During those same six months when the economy might have contracted, employers added 2.7 million jobs — more than were gained in most entire years before the pandemic. Wages are also rising at a healthy pace, with many employers still struggling to attract and retain enough workers.
The definition of recession that is most widely accepted is the one determined by the National Bureau of Economic Research, a group of economists whose Business Cycle Dating Committee defines a recession as “a significant decline in economic activity that is spread across the economy and lasts more than a few months.” The committee assesses a range of factors before publicly declaring the death of an economic expansion and the birth of a recession — and often does so well after the fact.


The Federal Reserve raised its benchmark interest rate by a hefty three-quarters of a point for a second straight time in its most aggressive drive in three decades to tame high inflation.
FILE - Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell speaks to the Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee, as he presents the Monetary Policy Report to the committee on Capitol Hill, on June 22, 2022, in Washington. With inflation raging at a four-decade high and the job market strong, the Fed is under pressure to raise interest rates aggressively. (AP Photo/Manuel Balce Ceneta, File)
WASHINGTON – The Federal Reserve on Wednesday raised its benchmark interest rate by a hefty three-quarters of a point for a second straight time in its most aggressive drive in three decades to tame high inflation.
The Fed’s move will raise its key rate, which affects many consumer and business loans, to a range of 2.25% to 2.5%, its highest level since 2018.
The central bank’s decision follows a jump in inflation to 9.1%, the fastest annual rate in 41 years, and reflects its strenuous efforts to slow price gains across the economy. By raising borrowing rates, the Fed makes it costlier to take out a mortgage or an auto or business loan. Consumers and businesses then presumably borrow and spend less, cooling the economy and slowing inflation.
The Fed is tightening credit even while the economy has begun to slow, thereby heightening the risk that its rate hikes will cause a recession later this year or next. The surge in inflation and fear of a recession have eroded consumer confidence and stirred public anxiety about the economy, which is sending frustratingly mixed signals.
Ad
With the November midterm elections nearing, Americans’ discontent has diminished President Joe Biden’s public approval ratings and increased the likelihood that the Democrats will lose control of the House and Senate.
The Fed’s moves to sharply tighten credit have torpedoed the housing market, which is especially sensitive to interest rate changes. The average rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage has roughly doubled in the past year, to 5.5%, and home sales have tumbled.
At the same time, consumers are showing signs of cutting spending in the face of high prices. And business surveys suggest that sales are slowing.
Ad
The central bank is betting that it can slow growth just enough to tame inflation yet not so much as to trigger a recession — a risk that many analysts fear may end badly.
In a statement the Fed issued after its latest policy meeting ended, it acknowledged that while “indicators of spending and production have softened,” “job gains have been robust in recent months, and the unemployment rate has remained low.” The Fed typically assigns high importance to the pace of hiring and pay growth because when more people earn paychecks, the resulting spending can fuel inflation.
On Thursday, when the government estimates the gross domestic product for the April-June period, some economists think it may show that the economy shrank for a second straight quarter. That would meet one longstanding assumption for when a recession has begun.
But economists say that wouldn’t necessarily mean a recession had started. During those same six months when the overall economy might have contracted, employers added 2.7 million jobs — more than in most entire years before the pandemic. Wages are also rising at a healthy pace, with many employers still struggling to attract and retain enough workers.
Ad
Still, slowing growth puts the Fed’s policymakers in a high-risk quandary: How high should they raise borrowing rates if the economy is decelerating? Weaker growth, if it causes layoffs and raises unemployment, often reduces inflation on its own.
That dilemma could become an even more consequential one for the Fed next year, when the economy may be in worse shape and inflation will likely still exceed the central bank’s 2% target.
“How much recession risk are you willing to bear to get (inflation) back to 2%, quickly, versus over the course of several years?” asked Nathan Sheets, a former Fed economist who is global chief economist at Citi. “Those are the kinds of issues they’re going to have to wrestle with.”
Economists at Bank of America foresee a “mild” recession later this year. Goldman Sachs analysts estimate a 50-50 likelihood of a recession within two years.
Among analysts who foresee a recession, most predict that it will prove relatively mild. The unemployment rate, they note, is near a 50-year low, and households are overall in solid financial shape, with more cash and smaller debts than after the housing bubble burst in 2008.
Ad
Fed officials have suggested that at its new level, their key short-term rate will neither stimulate growth nor restrict it – what they call a “neutral” level. Chair Jerome Powell has said the Fed wants its key rate to reach neutral relatively quickly.
Should the economy continue to show signs of slowing, the Fed may moderate the size of its rate hikes as soon as its next meeting in September, perhaps to a half-point. Such an increase, followed by possibly quarter-point hikes in November and December, would still raise the Fed’s short-term rate to 3.25% to 3.5% by year’s end -- the highest point since 2008.


The Fed’s move will raise its key rate, which affects many consumer and business loans, to a range of 2.25% to 2.5%, its highest level since 2018.
The Federal Reserve on Wednesday raised its benchmark interest rate by a hefty three-quarters of a point for a second straight time in its most aggressive drive in three decades to tame high inflation.
The Fed’s move will raise its key rate, which affects many consumer and business loans, to a range of 2.25% to 2.5%, its highest level since 2018.
The central bank’s decision follows a jump in inflation to 9.1%, the fastest annual rate in 41 years, and reflects its strenuous efforts to slow price gains across the economy. By raising borrowing rates, the Fed makes it costlier to take out a mortgage or an auto or business loan. Consumers and businesses then presumably borrow and spend less, cooling the economy and slowing inflation.
The Fed is tightening credit even while the economy has begun to slow, thereby heightening the risk that its rate hikes will cause a recession later this year or next. The surge in inflation and fear of a recession have eroded consumer confidence and stirred public anxiety about the economy, which is sending frustratingly mixed signals.
Stay informed about local news and weather. Get the NBC10 Boston app for iOS or Android and pick your alerts.
With the November midterm elections nearing, Americans’ discontent has diminished President Joe Biden’s public approval ratings and increased the likelihood that the Democrats will lose control of the House and Senate.
The Fed’s moves to sharply tighten credit have torpedoed the housing market, which is especially sensitive to interest rate changes. The average rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage has roughly doubled in the past year, to 5.5%, and home sales have tumbled.
At the same time, consumers are showing signs of cutting spending in the face of high prices. And business surveys suggest that sales are slowing.
The central bank is betting that it can slow growth just enough to tame inflation yet not so much as to trigger a recession — a risk that many analysts fear may end badly.
On Thursday, when the government estimates the gross domestic product for the April-June period, some economists think it may show that the economy shrank for a second straight quarter. That would meet one longstanding assumption for when a recession has begun.
But economists say that wouldn’t necessarily mean a recession had started. During those same six months when the overall economy might have contracted, employers added 2.7 million jobs — more than in most entire years before the pandemic. Wages are also rising at a healthy pace, with many employers still struggling to attract and retain enough workers.
Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell spoke on Thursday about the continuing effort to fight inflation.
Still, slowing growth puts the Fed’s policymakers in a high-risk quandary: How high should they raise borrowing rates if the economy is decelerating? Weaker growth, if it causes layoffs and raises unemployment, often reduces inflation on its own.
That dilemma could become an even more consequential one for the Fed next year, when the economy may be in worse shape and inflation will likely still exceed the central bank’s 2% target.
“How much recession risk are you willing to bear to get (inflation) back to 2%, quickly, versus over the course of several years?” asked Nathan Sheets, a former Fed economist who is global chief economist at Citi. “Those are the kinds of issues they’re going to have to wrestle with.”
Economists at Bank of America foresee a “mild” recession later this year. Goldman Sachs analysts estimate a 50-50 likelihood of a recession within two years.
Among analysts who foresee a recession, most predict that it will prove relatively mild. The unemployment rate, they note, is near a 50-year low, and households are overall in solid financial shape, with more cash and smaller debts than after the housing bubble burst in 2008.
Fed officials have suggested that at its new level, their key short-term rate will neither stimulate growth nor restrict it – what they call a “neutral” level. Chair Jerome Powell has said the Fed wants its key rate to reach neutral relatively quickly.
Should the economy continue to show signs of slowing, the Fed may moderate the size of its rate hikes as soon as its next meeting in September, perhaps to a half-point. Such an increase, followed by possibly quarter-point hikes in November and December, would still raise the Fed’s short-term rate to 3.25% to 3.5% by year’s end -- the highest point since 2008.


The Federal Reserve is expected again on Wednesday to order a large hike in interest rates amid increasing pressure to control high-running inflation that's making essential items more expensive for American families.
1/4
The Federal Reserve is widely expected to order a three-quarter point increase for the second month in a row. The Fed ordered the same increase at its meeting in June, which was the largest hike since 1994. File Photo by John Angelillo/UPI | License Photo
July 27 (UPI) -- The Federal Reserve is expected again on Wednesday to order a large hike in interest rates amid increasing pressure to control high-running inflation that's making essential items more expensive for American families. The U.S. central bank began its two-day policy meeting on Tuesday and will issue its decision at the end of Wednesday's session. Advertisement
The Federal Reserve is widely expected to order a three-quarter point increase for the second month in a row. The Fed ordered the same increase at its meeting in June, which was the largest hike since 1994. The central bank went for a half-point increase in May.
After Wednesday's meeting, Fed Chairman Jerome Powell will address and detail the expected increase, and those words are sure to be watched closely for signs of how the Fed might move on key interest rates at the remaining policy meetings in 2022.
RELATED Consumer confidence dips for third straight month
The recent increases make it more expensive for Americans to borrow money, but it's a move that traditionally helps to limit rising inflation. When combined with certain market conditions, more spending typically leads to higher inflation. The Fed considers the economy to be running at peak health when inflation is rising at a rate of 2%.
Advertisement
So far this year, the annual rates of inflation have been measured between 7% and 8% -- the highest levels in about 40 years. Last month, the Commerce Department said that inflation was up 8.6% over the previous 12 months.
"The Fed has told us they're unlikely to let up on the brakes until they see a convincing shift in the trajectory of monthly inflation readings that would signal progress towards the Fed's 2% target," PGIM Fixed Income Lead Economist Ellen Gaske wrote in a memo, according to Yahoo Finance.
A three-quarter point increase on Wednesday would raise the Fed's benchmark interest rate to between 2.25% to 2.5%.
Some economists warn that the Fed should avoid hiking interest rates too much and too abruptly, as doing so risks inadvertently creating a downturn.
"The question for the Fed is: Are we really heading into a recession?" Andrew Levin, a former Fed economist and a professor at Dartmouth College, said according to ABC News. "If so, is that going to slow the Fed's efforts to fight inflation?"
Advertisement
Inflation has been driven mostly by rising energy prices, especially the cost of gasoline. Gas prices have been at record levels this year, but have been coming down over the past few weeks. AAA said on Wednesday that the national average was $4.30 per gallon -- a decline of 2 cents from Tuesday.
The Commerce Department will issue its second-quarter economic report on Thursday. Gross domestic product for the first quarter declined by 1.4%.
This week in Washington


Understanding how stagflation in the 1970s got so bad could help today’s Federal Reserve avoid similar mistakes.
Stocks were booming, wages and prices were chasing each other higher, and, for the first time in decades, inflation was in the air. “Can the Federal Reserve Board be counted on to answer 1967’s expected inflationary alarms with its usual credit-curbing ardor?” The Wall Street Journal asked on Nov. 2, 1966. “The answer: Probably no.”
In fact, amid a series of monetary and fiscal half-measures, the next decade-and-a-half would become known as the Great Inflation, with the consumer price index surging 186%, or 7.3% annually, from 1968 to 1983. (The CPI was 4.7% in 2021 and is estimated at 8% this year so far.)


Another "unusually large" increase in interest rates may be appropriate at the Federal Reserve's September meeting, but the decision will be determined by the incoming economic data between now and then, Fed Chair Jerome Powell said on Wednesday.
July 27 (Reuters) - Another "unusually large" increase in interest rates may be appropriate at the Federal Reserve's September meeting, but the decision will be determined by the incoming economic data between now and then, Fed Chair Jerome Powell said on Wednesday.
The Fed's decision about whether to deliver a third straight 75 basis point increase - or something different - will be guided by whether they see firm evidence of inflation beginning to abate, Powell said at a press conference following the central bank's latest two-day policy meeting.
Register now for FREE unlimited access to Reuters.com Register
Reporting By Dan Burns Editing by Chizu Nomiyama
Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.


The Federal Reserve raised its benchmark overnight interest rate by three-quarters of a percentage point on Wednesday in an effort to cool the most intense breakout of inflation since the 1980s, with "ongoing increases" in borrowing costs still ahead despite evidence of a slowing economy.
NEW YORK, July 27 (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve raised its benchmark overnight interest rate by three-quarters of a percentage point on Wednesday in an effort to cool the most intense breakout of inflation since the 1980s, with "ongoing increases" in borrowing costs still ahead despite evidence of a slowing economy.
The rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee lifted the policy rate to a range of between 2.25% and 2.50% in a unanimous vote. Coming on top of a 75-basis-point hike last month, and smaller moves in May and March, the Fed has raised its policy rate by a total of 225 basis points this year to a level now that most Fed officials feel has a neutral economic impact, effectively marking the end of pandemic-era monetary stimulus. STORY: read more
MARKET REACTION:
Register now for FREE unlimited access to Reuters.com Register
STOCKS: The S&P 500 (.SPX) added to gains and was up 1.41%
BONDS: The 10-year U.S. Treasury note yield rose 2.7685%; The yield on the two-year slipped to 3.0446% after the Fed statement.FOREX: The dollar briefly went up but was last off 0.12%
COMMENTS:
MARVIN LOH, SENIOR GLOBAL MARKET STRATEGIST, STATE STREET, BOSTON
“You certainly can view the policy statement as hawkish but it is pretty consistent with what they have been saying for the last couple of meetings – they are going to continue to hike - estimates had them going into restrictive territory, they are at neutral now and they continue to think they are going to need to go into restrictive territory. Theoretically, the dollar should be stronger in an environment where it is hawkish but it was as expected and we have had a lot of movement in the dollar so far this month. It is as expected and we are all just going to have to wait to see what Powell says.”
“Certainly equities have been choppy but generally higher and that is around the view that the tightening cycle might not be as aggressive as initially thought. We’ve had dollar strength, we’ve had a more inverted curve, for the most part you’ve got mixed signals but just a lot of wide ranges that are trading around that I would say things are just in those ranges, if you will. I don’t expect the Fed to be able to actually dovishly pivot at this point. After the last CPI, after the last employment report – it is still hot. Certainly we’ve got data that is starting to moderate and in certain instances like the housing market showed that it is ready to move a bit more aggressively, but they kept the statement around being committed to getting inflation to 2% so to me I keep that in the back of my mind as being the most important thing they are looking at right now.”
MICHAEL PEARCE, SENIOR US ECONOMIST, CAPITAL ECONOMICS, NEW YORK
"The Fed’s decision to raise interest rates by a further 75bp to 2.25%-2.50% takes them close to their 'neutral' level. With inflation set to fall from here and further signs of economic weakness, we suspect officials will be more cautious raising rates from here, shifting to a smaller 50bp move in September."
BRIAN COULTON, CHIEF ECONOMIST, FITCH RATINGS
"The Fed’s statement acknowledged the recent softening in activity data but this is given short-shrift in the presence of what is still a very robust labor market and unrelenting inflation pressures. Despite this being another outsize rate increase of 75 bps, the Fed has still only raised interest rates back into line with its own estimates of the long-run neutral rate. Given where core inflation and the unemployment rate currently stand this underscores that monetary policy adjustment still has quite a long way to go. Market expectations that the Fed may be cutting rates again next year look premature."
JACK ABLIN, CHIEF INVESTMENT OFFICER AND FOUNDING PARTNER, CRESSET CAPITAL, CHICAGO
"This was widely expected and encouraging that it was a unanimous decision. This does represent the most aggressive series of fed moves since Volcker."
"Anything other than the outcome that told us would have been a negative surprise. Too little would've undermined confidence in the Fed and too much would have undermined confidence in the economy. It was well telegraphed and properly balanced against expectations."
"They're still highly attentive to inflation risks. It should underscore their single-minded focus on inflation."
Register now for FREE unlimited access to Reuters.com Register
Compiled by the U.S. Finance & Markets Breaking News team
Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.


Investors are uneasy as the Federal Reserve gears up for its latest policy announcement on Wednesday. But their hope is that the central bank and Chair Jerome Powell will keep talking tough, steering the path forward at an uncertain moment.
A version of this story first appeared in CNN Business' Before the Bell newsletter. Not a subscriber? You can sign up right here . You can listen to an audio version of the newsletter by clicking the same link.
London (CNN Business) Investors are uneasy as the Federal Reserve gears up for its latest policy announcement on Wednesday. But their hope is that the central bank and Chair Jerome Powell will keep talking tough, steering the path forward at an uncertain moment.
What's happening: The Fed is expected to hike interest rates by three-quarters of a percentage point as it continues with its ambitious campaign to bring down inflation, which hit a 40-year high in June. There had been some speculation that the Fed could raise rates by a full percentage point for the first time in its modern history, but that now looks less likely
Even the more conservative option would have major ripple effects.
"That would be unprecedented that we've gone with that large a move in two consecutive meetings," St. Louis Federal Reserve President Jim Bullard said in an interview earlier this month.
And to Wall Street, that's a good thing. Investors concede that the Fed has a difficult task at hand as it tries to control inflation without raising borrowing costs so aggressively that it tips the US economy into a recession.
But for now, they'd rather the Fed indicate that it plans to keep its resolve rather than adopt a more accommodating stance. In unstable times, the argument goes, consistency is key.
"The last thing the Fed wants to do now is to allow the market to think it's about to embark on a dovish pivot, despite increasing evidence that the economy is slowing," Michael Hewson, chief market analyst at CMC Markets, told clients on Wednesday.
That's because the Fed has worked hard to bolster its inflation-fighting credentials after they were called into question earlier this year. By the time the central bank started raising interest rates in March, core inflation — as tracked by the Personal Consumption Expenditures Price Index — was already at 5.2%, well above its target of near 2%.
"The Fed is obliged to really tighten because according to many observers, they started this cycle too late," Marco Pirondini, head of US equities at Amundi Asset Management, told me.
What does that mean in practice? Investors will be looking for Powell to repeat a line that's become his maxim: Targeting inflation is the Fed's top priority, even if it means unemployment, which is near historic lows, could start to tick up.
They'll also be on alert for guidance about what the Fed will do at its next meeting in September. Right now, there's little market consensus.
Powell has previously said the central bank will stay "data dependent," so he's unlikely to commit to a specific course. Between now and September's gathering, the Fed will get two jobs reports and another raft of inflation intel.
The advertising slowdown is hitting the biggest players
Microsoft MSFT Alphabet GOOGL Evenand Google'saren't insulated from the pullback in advertising spending as companies buckle down for a possible recession.
The latest: Sales from Google's core advertising business hit $56 billion between April and June , the company announced after markets closed on Tuesday.
That's a nearly 12% increase year-over-year, but represents a significant slowdown compared to last year. In the same quarter of 2021, Google's ad revenue jumped by almost 69%.
Microsoft also reported on Tuesday that a reduction in advertising spend last quarter cost it $100 million in revenue.
Remember: Investors panicked last week when Snap posted a brutal loss as advertisers pressed pause. But Wall Street isn't giving Alphabet and Microsoft the same treatment. Alphabet's shares are up 3.6% in premarket trading on Wednesday, while Microsoft's stock is 3.8% higher.
That's because there were other bright spots — namely the cloud.
Microsoft's cloud business brought in $25 billion in revenue last quarter, a 28% increase, while Google reported a nearly 36% year-over-year revenue gain from its cloud computing segment.
"Whilst advertising spends will go up and down on economic cycles, the overall shift to Cloud computing as the backbone for all digital business — advertising, marketing and sales — is long term," said Tom Johnson, global chief digital officer at media agency Mindshare Worldwide.
Instagram is dealing with a Kardashian problem
To beat back the threat of TikTok, Instagram has unveiled a suite of updates to its platform. But the social media app isn't getting positive feedback.
Posts calling on the company to "Make Instagram Instagram again" have gone viral after it started prioritizing algorithmically-recommended posts and videos from its Reels product over photos from friends.
Even Kim Kardashian and Kylie Jenner have joined the chorus of dissenters . The famous half-sisters are among Instagram's most-followed accounts, with 326 million and 360 million followers, respectively, my CNN Business colleagues Clare Duffy and Jennifer Korn note.
Instagram chief Adam Mosseri addressed the criticism in a video post on the platform Tuesday. He acknowledged that Instagram is "experimenting with a number of different changes to the app," but emphasized that those decisions are based on what the company is seeing in its data.
"We're going to continue to support photos. They're part of our heritage," he said. "That said, I need to be honest: I do believe that more and more of Instagram is going to become video over time."
Investor insight: Instagram parent Meta Platforms reports results after US markets close on Wednesday. Its shares are down 48% year-to-date.
Last quarter, Meta said investments in content recommended by algorithms were essential for it to stay competitive, and that Reels already made up more than 20% of the time people spend on Instagram. What's the latest? And will CEO Mark Zuckerberg weigh in?
Up next
Boeing BA Hilton HLT Kraft Heinz KHC Spotify SPOT Etsy ETSY Ford F Meta FB Qualcomm QCOM andreport results before US markets open.andfollow after the close.
Also today: The Federal Reserve's latest interest rate decision goes live at 2 p.m. ET, followed by a press conference with Chair Jerome Powell.
Coming tomorrow: Did America's GDP contract for two consecutive quarters? Economists polled by Reuters expect 0.5% growth between April and June, but the risks of a surprise are high.


Dow Jones futures rose Wednesday ahead of the Federal Reserve's interest-rate decision. Alphabet and Microsoft missed earnings targets.
Dow Jones futures rose Wednesday morning ahead of the Federal Reserve's interest-rate decision. Tech giants Alphabet (GOOGL) and Microsoft (MSFT) reported weaker-than-expected earnings results late Tuesday. Meanwhile, Meta Platforms (META) earnings are due out after the close.
X
Google-parent Alphabet reported June-quarter earnings and revenue that missed Wall Street targets as YouTube and its cloud computing business fell short of expectations. Shares rallied more than 3%. Meanwhile, software leader Microsoft missed analyst expectations for its fiscal fourth quarter, blaming unfavorable foreign exchange rates and weak PC sales. Microsoft stock rose 3%.
Other key earnings movers Wednesday morning include Chipotle Mexican Grill (CMG), Enphase Energy (ENPH), Shopify (SHOP), Spotify (SPOT) and Texas Instruments (TXN), along with Dow Jones stocks Boeing (BA) and Visa (V).
Chipotle jumped 8%. Enphase easily beat second-quarter estimates and guided higher for the current quarter, as shares surged almost 10%. Shopify tumbled almost 7%. Spotify rose 5%. And Texas Instruments crushed Wall Street's targets for the second quarter and guided higher for the current period, as shares rose almost 3%.
Tesla (TSLA) rallied nearly 2% early Wednesday. Elsewhere, Dow Jones tech leader Apple (AAPL) traded up 0.8% before today's stock market open.
In the volatile stock market environment, Dow Jones stock UnitedHealth (UNH) — as well as ELF Beauty (ELF), Quanta Services (PWR), Ulta Beauty (ULTA), Verra Mobility (VRRM) and Vertex Pharmaceuticals (VRTX) — are among the stocks to watch. Keep in mind that ongoing stock market volatility is a reason to stay more conservative despite recent signs of strength.
UnitedHealth and Vertex are IBD Leaderboard stocks. ELF and Ulta were featured in this week's Stocks Near A Buy Zone column.
Dow Jones Today: Treasury Yields, Oil Prices, Fed Decision
Ahead of Wednesday's open, the Dow Jones futures rose 0.5%, and S&P 500 futures rallied 0.9%. Nasdaq 100 futures were up 1.4% vs. fair value. Remember that overnight action in Dow futures and elsewhere doesn't necessarily translate into actual trading in the next regular stock market session.
Among exchange-traded funds, the Nasdaq 100 tracker Invesco QQQ Trust (QQQ) moved up 1.4%. And the SPDR S&P 500 ETF (SPY) gained 0.8%.
The 10-year Treasury yield ticked higher to 2.81% Wednesday morning, bouncing back from Tuesday's drop. On Tuesday, the 10-year Treasury yield hit its lowest level since April. Meanwhile, U.S. oil prices rebounded, as West Texas Intermediate futures rose almost 1% to trade near $96 a a barrel.
The Fed's two-day meeting concludes Wednesday with an policy decision at 2 p.m. ET, followed by a press conference with Fed Chair Jerome Powell at 2:30 p.m. Wall Street anticipates that the central bank will raise interest rates aggressively through the end of the year — and then turn around and start cutting them in six months. Another 75-basis-point rate hike is expected.
Stock Market Rally
The Nasdaq led the market lower Tuesday, selling off 1.9%. The Dow Jones industrials and S&P 500 fell 0.7% and 1.15%, respectively.
Tuesday's The Big Picture column commented, "The selling was most concentrated in the Nasdaq composite, which dropped 1.9%. But breadth wasn't too bad with declining stocks beating advancers by about 3 to 2. The ratio was about the same on the NYSE, with losers beating winners by less than 2 to 1. Volume rose on the Nasdaq, giving the index a distribution day."
If you're new to IBD, consider taking a look at its stock trading system and CAN SLIM basics. Recognizing chart patterns is one key to the investment guidelines. IBD offers a broad range of growth stock lists, such as Leaderboard and SwingTrader.
Investors also can create watchlists, find companies nearing a buy point, or develop custom screens at IBD MarketSmith.
Dow Jones Earnings: Boeing, Visa
Airplane maker Boeing rose 2% Wednesday morning despite missing second-quarter earnings and sales targets. Boeing still sees positive free cash flow forecast for the full year.
Dow Jones financial leader Visa beat Q3 earnings and revenue estimates. Earnings grew 33% year over year to $1.98 a share. Sales gained 19% to $7.3 billion. FactSet analysts expected EPS of $1.75 on sales of $7.076 billion. Visa shares slipped less than 1% in morning trade.
Five Dow Jones Stocks To Watch Now
Dow Jones Stocks To Watch: UnitedHealth
Health insurance giant and IBD Leaderboard stock UnitedHealth is further above its double-bottom-with-handle base's 518.80 buy point after Tuesday's 0.4% gain, according to IBD MarketSmith chart analysis. Shares were unchanged Wednesday.
UNH stock shows a solid 95 out of a perfect 99 IBD Composite Rating, per the IBD Stock Checkup. Investors can use the IBD Composite Rating to easily gauge the quality of a stock's fundamental and technical metrics.
4 Top Growth Stocks To Watch In The Current Stock Market Rally
Top Stocks To Watch: ELF, Quanta, Ulta, Verra, Vertex
ELF Beauty is about 3% below a 33.54 buy point in a cup with handle following a recent skid. The RS line hit a new high last week, which is a sign of big stock market outperformance. ELF shares edged higher Wednesday.
Quanta Services is putting the finishing touches on a cup-with-handle base that has a 138.56 buy point, according to IBD MarketSmith chart analysis. Meanwhile, an early entry at 133.68 is also in play. Shares traded flat Wednesday.
IBD Big Cap 20 stock Ulta Beauty is building a flat base with 429.58 buy point, but is below its 50-day line after Tuesday's 4.1% tumble. The base comes in the wake of a failed breakout past a cup with handle's 426.93 entry in June. Ulta shares rose almost 1% Wednesday.
Verra Mobility is trading about 5% below a cup with handle's 16.83 buy point in the wake of Tuesday's 4.3% slide. The stock's RS line continues to show tremendous strength as it hit a another new high last week. Verra shares were unchanged Wednesday.
IBD Leaderboard stock Vertex Pharmaceuticals found support around a cup-with-handle's 279.23 buy point amid a two-day win streak, according to IBD MarketSmith chart analysis. The biotech leader is in the 5% buy area that goes up to 293.19 amid Tuesday's 1.6% rise. Vertex stock was unchanged Wednesday.
Join IBD experts as they analyze leading stocks in the current stock market rally on IBD Live
Tesla Stock
Tesla stock skidded 3.6% Tuesday, falling for a second-straight session and giving back a part of last week's earnings-fueled 13.4% surge. Shares briefly reached their highest level since early May, but are still about 38% off their 52-week high.
Shares rallied about 2% Wednesday morning.
Dow Jones Leaders: Apple, Microsoft
Among Dow Jones stocks, Apple shares declined 0.9% Tuesday, extending a losing streak to three sessions. Apple remains above its 50-day line after bullish action in recent weeks. Still, shares remain below their long-term 200-day line, which looms as a resistance level to watch. The stock is about 17% off its 52-week high. Apple shares moved up 0.8% Wednesday.
Microsoft sold off 2.7% Tuesday, falling further below its 50-day line. The stock closed about 28% off its 52-week high. Microsoft traded up 3% Wednesday after the company's earnings results and guidance.
Be sure to follow Scott Lehtonen on Twitter at @IBD_SLehtonen for more on growth stocks and the Dow Jones Industrial Average.
YOU MAY ALSO LIKE:
Top Growth Stocks To Buy And Watch
Learn How To Time The Market With IBD's ETF Market Strategy
Find The Best Long-Term Investments With IBD Long-Term Leaders
MarketSmith: Research, Charts, Data And Coaching All In One Place
How To Research Growth Stocks: Why This IBD Tool Simplifies The Search For Top Stocks


It's the Federal Reserve task to tame inflation that is running at a pace not seen in four decades. To do so, it has been hiking interest rates at a fast pace.
Top officials at the Federal Reserve were seeing inflation data come in very hot for months before policymakers moved to wind down monetary policies that were stimulating the economy.
A chorus of analysts, economists and former policymakers have chimed in, saying that was a mistake.
"The forward guidance, overall, slowed the response to the Fed to the inflation problem" former Federal Reserve Chair Ben Bernanke told CNBC.
Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen also acknowledged the misdiagnosis coming from her own department, and that of current Fed Chair Jerome Powell.
"Both of us could have probably used a better word than 'transitory,'" she told senators in June when asked about their remarks about inflation last year and their slow response to price pressures.
It's the Fed's task to tame inflation that is running at a pace not seen in four decades. To do so, it has been hiking interest rates at a fast pace.
Reining in inflation may take more aggressive monetary policy moves than the central bank has embraced in recent years, according to economists like Judd Cramer. His research indicates that the Fed may need to hike rates to levels not seen in decades to force rising prices into retreat.
"If inflation is going to be high and remain higher, that means that the neutral rate in the economy is also going to be higher because the price of goods are going up," he said to CNBC.
A June survey of inflation expectations from the New York Federal Reserve suggests the price hikes aren't over yet. The group predicts that by June 2023, prices will have risen approximately 6.8% from their current levels.
Maintaining stable prices and maximizing employment are the Fed's top responsibilities. Jobs appear plentiful in the U.S., which may give the central bank cover to raise interest rates at an aggressive pace through 2023.
The Federal Reserve was contacted for comment but is in a media blackout before the expected rate announcement later today.
Watch the video above to learn more about the Fed's missteps on inflation, along with its plan to get the economy back on track.


The Federal Reserve is expected to announce an increase of up to three-quarters of a percentage point in its benchmark interest rate.
Global stocks, oil prices higher before likely US interest rate hike to cool surging inflation
The Federal Reserve on Wednesday is expected to announce an increase of up to three-quarters of a percentage point in its benchmark interest rate, triple its usual margin.
Major global stock markets and Wall Street futures advanced Wednesday as traders prepared for a possible sharp interest rate hike by the Federal Reserve to cool surging inflation.
London and Frankfurt opened higher. Tokyo and Sydney gained while Shanghai declined. Oil prices rose.
The Fed on Wednesday is expected to announce an increase of up to three-quarters of a percentage point in its benchmark interest rate, triple its usual margin. Investors worry such aggressive action by the Fed and other central banks in Europe and Asia to control inflation that is at multi-decade highs might derail global economic growth.
"The main risk at this stage is in fact an inflation 'overkill' with monetary tightening too abrupt, unnecessarily pushing up the unemployment rate," Thomas Costerg of Pictet Wealth Management said in a report. Costerg said most economic indicators and lower commodity prices already point to slower inflation ahead.
In early trading, the FTSE 100 in London rose 0.5% to 7,345.81. The DAX in Frankfurt rose 0.3% to 13,136.88 and the CAC 40 in Paris advanced 0.3% to 6,230.48.
The future for Wall Street's benchmark S &P 500 index was up 0.9% and that for the Dow Jones Industrial Average added 0.4%.
On Tuesday, the S &P 500 fell 1.2% after Walmart warned inflation that has spiked to a four-decade high of 9.1% hurts American consumer spending.
The Dow dropped 0.7% and the Nasdaq composite closed 1.9% lower.
In Asia, the Shanghai Composite Index lost less than 0.1% to 3,275.76 while Tokyo's Nikkei 225 advanced 0.2% to 27,715.75. The Hang Seng in Hong Kong sank 1.4% to 20,620.10.
Sydney's S &P-ASX 200 added 0.2% to 6,823.20 after data showed Australian inflation rose to 6.1% in the latest quarter from 5.1% but the increase was smaller than forecast.
The Kospi in Seoul gained 0.1% to 2,415.53 and India's Sensex rose 0.8% to 55,715.95. New Zealand declined while Southeast Asian markets advanced.
On Wall Street, other major retailers also fell Tuesday following Walmart's profit warning. Target dropped 3.6%, Macy's slid 7.2% and Kohl's fell 9.1%.
Tech stocks retreated. Microsoft fell 2.7%, Amazon slid 5.2% and Facebook owner Meta Platforms dropped 4.5%.
General Motors fell 3.4% after its second-quarter profit fell 40% from a year ago. U.S. sales fell 15% after shortages of processor chips and other components left the company unable to deliver 95,000 vehicles during the quarter.
In energy markets, benchmark U.S. crude rose $1.17 to $96.15 per barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The contract fell $1.72 on Tuesday to $94.98. Brent crude, the price basis for international oils, added 94 cents to $100.40 per barrel in London.
The dollar rose to 136,90 yen from Tuesday's 136.00 yen. The euro gained to $1.0138 from $1.0120.


U.S. stock futures pointed to a higher open Wednesday as investors geared up for a major decision from Federal Reserve policymakers on interest rates.
U.S. stock futures pointed to a higher open Wednesday as investors geared up for a major decision from Federal Reserve policymakers on interest rates.
Contracts tied to all three major indexes rose in early trading, lifted by gains in Microsoft and Alphabet after earnings reports from the tech giants late Tuesday. Futures tied to the S&P 500 advanced 0.8%, while futures tied to the Dow Jones Industrial Average added 120 points, or roughly 0.4%. Nasdaq futures jumped 1.4%.
Shares of Microsoft (MSFT) rose 3% ahead of the open, buoyed by a rosy outlook for its cloud business despite unveiling earnings for the fiscal fourth quarter that missed Wall Street estimates. The company maintained its guidance for solid revenue growth in the new fiscal year despite the impact of headwinds from war in Ukraine, an unfavorable foreign exchange rate environment, and prolonged COVID shutdowns in China on its most recent financials.
Alphabet (GOOG, GOOGL) shares climbed nearly 4% premarket after a modest beat on ad revenue offered some relief to investors Tuesday following a dismal report from Snap (SNAP) last week that raised concerns about the digital advertising market.
The reports serve as curtain raisers for more Big Tech results this week, with figures from Meta Platforms (META) due out after Wednesday’s close, and Apple (AAPL) and Amazon.com (AMZN) on deck to report Thursday.
Google, Amazon and Apple logos are seen behind a silhouette of a hand holding a mobile phone. (Photo Illustration by Pavlo Gonchar/SOPA Images/LightRocket via Getty Images)
The Federal Reserve is expected to issue another 75 basis point increase on its benchmark interest rate at the conclusion of its two-day policy-setting meeting Wednesday afternoon. Investors will also tune in to remarks from Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell after the U.S. central bank’s policy decision comes out at 2:00 p.m. ET.
If the U.S. central bank follows through on the hike market participants are largely anticipating, the move will bring rates to a range of 2.25%-2.5%, or a "neutral" level estimated to be the point at which any further rate increases would be “restrictive” to economic activity.
Story continues
“The market can begin to firm once it believes the Fed is going to toggle down expectations,” Christopher Harvey, head of equity strategy at Wells Fargo Securities told Yahoo Finance Live on Tuesday (video above). “You’re not going to get that on Wednesday, but I do think you get a pretty good probability of that occurring in September."
—
Alexandra Semenova is a reporter for Yahoo Finance. Follow her on Twitter @alexandraandnyc
Click here for the latest stock market news and in-depth analysis, including events that move stocks
Read the latest financial and business news from Yahoo Finance
Download the Yahoo Finance app for Apple or Android
Follow Yahoo Finance on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, Flipboard, LinkedIn, and YouTube


The Federal Reserve will look to tackle high inflation by boosting interest rates, economists expect.
Why the Fed Raises Interest Rates: 'Front-Loading'
The Fed has been upping interest rates at an incredible pace recently, as policymakers look to cool an overheated economy.
In June, its last increase, was the steepest rise since 1994—raising the rate three-quarters of a percentage point.
That came after a quarter-point rise in March and a half-point rise in May.
The idea? To reduce spending and encourage saving, thus slowing down inflation that has resulted in prices rising at a rate not witnessed in four decades.
The approach is commonly referred to as "front-loading."
The Fed is far from alone in deploying the tactic, with central banks around the world announcing ever-sharper interest rate increases.


The Federal Reserve is on track for another steep interest rate hike Wednesday despite growing fears its fight against inflation could push the U.S. into a recession.
(The Hill) – The Federal Reserve is on track for another steep interest rate hike Wednesday despite growing fears its fight against inflation could push the U.S. into a recession.
Fed officials are expected to announce another 0.75 percentage point interest rate hike Wednesday as both job growth and price growth rose, according to federal data.
The Fed has aggressively boosted interest rates since March to bring prices down after waiting in vain for months for inflation to decline. The bank has already hiked its baseline interest rate range by 1.5 percentage points this year, including a 0.75 percentage point hike in June.
“To the Fed, obviously job No. 1 is getting inflation down, and hopefully down without setting the economy in recession, but that isn’t a prerequisite,” said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody’s Analytics.
“That’s really hard because a lot of inflation is coming from things that are out of their control.”
The U.S. economy has shown signs of slowing under the pressure of higher Fed interest rates, which is a key step in the bank’s goal of bringing inflation down. Housing sales have plunged as mortgage rates rise, stock values have dropped and businesses are pulling back on plans to hire and expand with profit margins narrowing.
But the war in Ukraine and ongoing supply chain issues driven by the pandemic have kept up pressure on food and energy prices, pushing the Fed to go even further with rate hikes.
Karen Shaw Petrou, a managing partner at Federal Financial Analytics, said the pressures facing the Fed “have only gotten” worse since the bank raised rates in June, forcing the Fed to make tough choices.
“You got no meaningful curb on inflation, even with a sharp rate rise. At the same time, financial market stresses and the impact of this inflation on household spending are curbing economic growth,” Petrou said, arguing the Fed should have begun hiking much sooner.
“It’s the worst of both worlds. There’s no good answer.”
Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell and other top officials at the central bank have stressed for months that they will raise interest rates as high as necessary to bring inflation down. While Powell said the U.S. may be able to avoid a recession in the process, he acknowledged it has become harder for the Fed to avert a downturn.
Powell previously said reducing inflation back to the Fed’s target range is far more important to the long-term health of the economy.
“We fully understand and appreciate the pain people are going through dealing with higher inflation. We have the tools to address that and the resolve to use them,” Powell said last month.
“The process is likely — highly likely — to involve some pain, but the worst pain would be from failing to address this high inflation and allowing it to become persistent.”
How much pain the economy feels depends largely on how far the Fed believes it needs to go to curb inflation. And economists say that’s far from clear.
Inflation has steamed ahead throughout the summer even as the broader economy slows under the weight of higher interest rates and shock waves from the war in Ukraine.
Prices rose 9.1 percent annually in June and 1.2 percent last month alone, according to Labor Department data released last week, even though gross domestic product likely declined for the second straight quarter. Weekly unemployment claims still remain low but have risen to their highest level since November as a growing number of companies shed jobs amid a slowing economy.
Consumer confidence in the economy has also fallen sharply, and while retail spending has grown, further pressure from inflation and interest rate hikes could soon lead to a nosedive in spending.
“Consumers’ increased pessimism is consistent with our view that consumer spending and the broader economy are downshifting to a much slower growth path amid high inflation, rapidly-rising interest rates, and financial market volatility,” Lydia Boussour, lead U.S. economist at Oxford Economics, wrote in a Tuesday analysis.
“While we still see strong economic fundamentals preventing the US economy from slipping into recession this year, the pathway to a softish landing is narrowing.”
Most economists do not believe the U.S. is in a recession yet despite mounting signs of the economy slowing.
The country has added 2.5 million jobs since the start of 2022, including 372,000 in June alone, with an unemployment rate of 3.6 percent. In fact, the resilience of the job market and a record ratio of open jobs to unemployed workers are among several factors preventing the Fed from bringing inflation down.
Zandi said the U.S. is “not even close” to being in a recession right now because of the strength of the job market, but he acknowledged that the risks of a recession are rising.
“We’re on the precipice. It won’t take a lot to push us over,” Zandi said.
Zandi said the Fed should signal that it won’t be hiking interest rates as fast in the future.
Some left-leaning policy experts and lawmakers, including Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), have urged the Fed to stop hiking rates entirely, insisting it would doom the economy.
“Rising costs are an urgent problem, and interest rates play a key role in maintaining price stability. But urgency is no excuse for doubling down on a dangerous treatment,” Warren wrote in a Monday op-ed for The Wall Street Journal.
But Petrou said the Fed has no choice but to push ahead with interest rate hikes to curb inflation, insisting job losses and deep despair would visit the economy no matter what if the bank doesn’t get prices under control.
“Households are already starting to curb discretionary spending, and they will do so more and you’re going to have higher unemployment anyway. That’s the devil the Fed has created.”


The Federal Reserve's latest interest rate announcement and everything else to watch for in markets on Wednesday, July 27
This article first appeared in the Morning Brief. Get the Morning Brief sent directly to your inbox every Monday to Friday by 6:30 a.m. ET. Subscribe
Wednesday, July 27, 2022
Today's newsletter is by Brian Cheung, an anchor and reporter covering the Fed, economics, and banking for Yahoo Finance. You can follow him on Twitter @bcheungz.
The Federal Reserve is trying to land a plane from the high skies of strong economic activity and elevated inflation.
Starting today, it is time — or maybe it has been time — for investors to buckle their seatbelts, stow away their tray tables, and return seats to the upright position.
Because the answers on whether this swoon becomes a "hard" or "soft" landing for the economy are about to start rolling in.
Fed Chairman Jerome Powell, our proverbial economic pilot, has already begun descent of the plane through rate hikes in March, May, and June.
By raising interest rates another 0.75% today, the Fed will bring rates to a range of 2.25%-2.5%, or a "neutral" level estimated to be the point at which any further rate increases would be “restrictive” to economic activity. In September, economists expect the Fed to bring rates into this territory.
U.S. Federal Reserve Board Chair Jerome Powell testifies before a House Financial Services Committee hearing in Washington, U.S., June 23, 2022. REUTERS/Mary F. Calvert
“The Fed has told us they’re unlikely to let up on the brakes until they see a convincing shift in the trajectory of monthly inflation readings that would signal progress towards the Fed’s 2% target,” PGIM Fixed Income Lead Economist Ellen Gaske wrote in a note Friday.
With interest rates at “neutral,” further rate hikes could have a more substantial bite into inflation, which clocked in at 9.1% on a year-over-year basis in June.
And the Fed suspects investors will find out just how many more rate hikes do the trick.
The central bank's own projections from June estimate the Fed will need to raise rates to roughly 3.8% next year to pull off a slowdown in inflation. But Fed watchers are all over the place on this estimate — Deutsche Bank thinks the Fed will be forced to lift rates to 4.1%, but Goldman Sachs thinks the Fed will not be able to push rates past 3.5%.
Story continues
The ideal landing for the economy is one where higher borrowing costs lower inflation but not at the cost of squeezing employers into laying off their employees. Ask employees in the tech sector, however, and you're likely to hear the dream of this scenario has already passed us by.
That’s why Powell’s commentary in today’s press conference will prove critical.
Powell's comments could signal how the Fed may move in the central bank’s three remaining scheduled meetings, set for September, November, and December. And how much economic and financial market discomfort the Fed is willing to endure.
“The pace of hikes remains uncertain as we get into the fall,” wrote UBS' Solita Marcelli on Monday.
Whether the next hikes are 0.50% or 0.75% or 1.00% in those fall meetings will depend on how employment and inflation data come in. One more wrinkle making this landing a bit trickier: monetary policy operates with a lag, meaning timing may be difficult for the Fed to nail in a rapidly evolving economic environment.
As a reminder, the seat belt sign is turned on.
The Fed statement is due at 2 p.m. ET, followed by the chairman’s press conference at 2:30 p.m. ET.
Buckle up.
What to Watch Today
Economic calendar
MBA mortgage applications (week ended July 22)
Durable goods orders (June)
Retail inventories (June)
Wholesale inventories (June)
Pending home sales (June)
FOMC statement
Fed Chair Jerome Powell press conference
Earnings
Meta Platforms (META), Boeing (BA), Ford (F), Etsy (ETSY), Qualcomm (QCOM), T-Mobile (TMUS), Bristol-Myers Squibb (BMY), Kraft Heinz (KH), Hilton Worldwide (HLT), Boston Scientific (BSX), Sherwin-Williams (SHW), Fortune Brands (FBH), Flex (FLEX), Hess Corporation (HES), Norfolk Southern (NSC), Netgear (NTGR), Cheesecake Factory (CAKE), American Water Works (AWK), Ryder System (R), Genuine Parts (GPC), Waste Management (WM), Community Health Systems (CYH), Molina Healthcare (MOH), Owens Corning (OC)
Yahoo Finance Highlights
—
Click here for the latest economic news and economic indicators to help you in your investing decisions
Read the latest financial and business news from Yahoo Finance
Download the Yahoo Finance app for Apple or Android
Follow Yahoo Finance on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, Flipboard, LinkedIn, and YouTube


Cryptos have shown themselves to be sensitive to macro forces. Digital assets are expected to react to the Federal Reserve's latest monetary policy decision.
Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies were rising Wednesday ahead of the Federal Reserve’s latest decision on interest rates. Digital assets appear to be at the mercy of the central bank and wider markets amid salient fears around inflation and recession.
The price of Bitcoin has risen 1% over the past 24 hours to $21,300, grinding higher after the largest crypto took a leg downward on Monday. Bitcoin has made a slow but steady rally from its recent June bottom below $18,000, topping out above $24,000 last week before sliding back as markets braced for a turbulent week.


BEIJING (AP) — Major global stock markets and Wall Street futures advanced Wednesday as traders prepared for a possible sharp interest rate hike by the Federal Reserve to cool surging inflation. London and Frankfurt opened higher.
Global stocks, oil prices higher before likely US rate hike
A currency trader walks near the screens at a foreign exchange dealing room in Seoul, South Korea, Wednesday, July 27, 2022. Asian stock markets followed Wall Street lower Wednesday as traders prepared for a possible sharp interest rate hike from the Federal Reserve to cool inflation. (AP Photo/Lee Jin-man)
A currency trader walks near the screens at a foreign exchange dealing room in Seoul, South Korea, Wednesday, July 27, 2022. Asian stock markets followed Wall Street lower Wednesday as traders prepared for a possible sharp interest rate hike from the Federal Reserve to cool inflation. (AP Photo/Lee Jin-man)
BEIJING (AP) — Major global stock markets and Wall Street futures advanced Wednesday as traders prepared for a possible sharp interest rate hike by the Federal Reserve to cool surging inflation.
London and Frankfurt opened higher. Tokyo and Sydney gained while Shanghai declined. Oil prices rose.
The Fed on Wednesday is expected to announce an increase of up to three-quarters of a percentage point in its benchmark interest rate, triple its usual margin. Investors worry such aggressive action by the Fed and other central banks in Europe and Asia to control inflation that is at multi-decade highs might derail global economic growth.
“The main risk at this stage is in fact an inflation ‘overkill’ with monetary tightening too abrupt, unnecessarily pushing up the unemployment rate,” Thomas Costerg of Pictet Wealth Management said in a report. Costerg said most economic indicators and lower commodity prices already point to slower inflation ahead.
ADVERTISEMENT
In early trading, the FTSE 100 in London rose 0.5% to 7,345.81. The DAX in Frankfurt rose 0.3% to 13,136.88 and the CAC 40 in Paris advanced 0.3% to 6,230.48.
The future for Wall Street’s benchmark S&P 500 index was up 0.9% and that for the Dow Jones Industrial Average added 0.4%.
On Tuesday, the S&P 500 fell 1.2% after Walmart warned inflation that has spiked to a four-decade high of 9.1% hurts American consumer spending.
The Dow dropped 0.7% and the Nasdaq composite closed 1.9% lower.
In Asia, the Shanghai Composite Index lost less than 0.1% to 3,275.76 while Tokyo’s Nikkei 225 advanced 0.2% to 27,715.75. The Hang Seng in Hong Kong sank 1.4% to 20,620.10.
Sydney’s S&P-ASX 200 added 0.2% to 6,823.20 after data showed Australian inflation rose to 6.1% in the latest quarter from 5.1% but the increase was smaller than forecast.
The Kospi in Seoul gained 0.1% to 2,415.53 and India’s Sensex rose 0.8% to 55,715.95. New Zealand declined while Southeast Asian markets advanced.
On Wall Street, other major retailers also fell Tuesday following Walmart’s profit warning. Target dropped 3.6%, Macy’s slid 7.2% and Kohl’s fell 9.1%.
Tech stocks retreated. Microsoft fell 2.7%, Amazon slid 5.2% and Facebook owner Meta Platforms dropped 4.5%.
General Motors fell 3.4% after its second-quarter profit fell 40% from a year ago. U.S. sales fell 15% after shortages of processor chips and other components left the company unable to deliver 95,000 vehicles during the quarter.
In energy markets, benchmark U.S. crude rose $1.17 to $96.15 per barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The contract fell $1.72 on Tuesday to $94.98. Brent crude, the price basis for international oils, added 94 cents to $100.40 per barrel in London.
The dollar rose to 136,90 yen from Tuesday’s 136.00 yen. The euro gained to $1.0138 from $1.0120.


Major global stock markets and Wall Street futures have advanced as traders brace for a possible sharp interest rate hike by the Federal Reserve to cool surging inflation.
A currency trader walks near the screens at a foreign exchange dealing room in Seoul, South Korea, Wednesday, July 27, 2022. Asian stock markets followed Wall Street lower Wednesday as traders prepared for a possible sharp interest rate hike from the Federal Reserve to cool inflation. (AP Photo/Lee Jin-man)
Copyright 2022 The Associated Press. All rights reserved
BEIJING – Major global stock markets and Wall Street futures advanced Wednesday as traders prepared for a possible sharp interest rate hike by the Federal Reserve to cool surging inflation.
London and Frankfurt opened higher. Tokyo and Sydney gained while Shanghai declined. Oil prices rose.
The Fed on Wednesday is expected to announce an increase of up to three-quarters of a percentage point in its benchmark interest rate, triple its usual margin. Investors worry such aggressive action by the Fed and other central banks in Europe and Asia to control inflation that is at multi-decade highs might derail global economic growth.
“The main risk at this stage is in fact an inflation ‘overkill’ with monetary tightening too abrupt, unnecessarily pushing up the unemployment rate,” Thomas Costerg of Pictet Wealth Management said in a report. Costerg said most economic indicators and lower commodity prices already point to slower inflation ahead.
Ad
In early trading, the FTSE 100 in London rose 0.5% to 7,345.81. The DAX in Frankfurt rose 0.3% to 13,136.88 and the CAC 40 in Paris advanced 0.3% to 6,230.48.
The future for Wall Street's benchmark S&P 500 index was up 0.9% and that for the Dow Jones Industrial Average added 0.4%.
On Tuesday, the S&P 500 fell 1.2% after Walmart warned inflation that has spiked to a four-decade high of 9.1% hurts American consumer spending.
The Dow dropped 0.7% and the Nasdaq composite closed 1.9% lower.
In Asia, the Shanghai Composite Index lost less than 0.1% to 3,275.76 while Tokyo's Nikkei 225 advanced 0.2% to 27,715.75. The Hang Seng in Hong Kong sank 1.4% to 20,620.10.
Sydney’s S&P-ASX 200 added 0.2% to 6,823.20 after data showed Australian inflation rose to 6.1% in the latest quarter from 5.1% but the increase was smaller than forecast.
The Kospi in Seoul gained 0.1% to 2,415.53 and India's Sensex rose 0.8% to 55,715.95. New Zealand declined while Southeast Asian markets advanced.
Ad
On Wall Street, other major retailers also fell Tuesday following Walmart's profit warning. Target dropped 3.6%, Macy’s slid 7.2% and Kohl’s fell 9.1%.
Tech stocks retreated. Microsoft fell 2.7%, Amazon slid 5.2% and Facebook owner Meta Platforms dropped 4.5%.
General Motors fell 3.4% after its second-quarter profit fell 40% from a year ago. U.S. sales fell 15% after shortages of processor chips and other components left the company unable to deliver 95,000 vehicles during the quarter.
In energy markets, benchmark U.S. crude rose $1.17 to $96.15 per barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The contract fell $1.72 on Tuesday to $94.98. Brent crude, the price basis for international oils, added 94 cents to $100.40 per barrel in London.
The dollar rose to 136,90 yen from Tuesday's 136.00 yen. The euro gained to $1.0138 from $1.0120.


The Federal Reserve is raising interest rates to fight inflation. Some economists want more; some politicians want less. What’s the logic?
America’s central bank has for decades been what Paul Volcker, its chair in the 1980s, called “the only game in town” when it comes to fighting inflation. While there are things that elected leaders can do to combat rising prices — raising taxes to curb consumption, spending more on education and infrastructure to improve productivity, helping flailing industries — those targeted policies tend to take time. The things that elected policymakers can do quickly generally help mainly around the edges.
But time is of the essence when it comes to controlling inflation. If price increases run fast for months or years on end, people begin to adjust their lives accordingly. Workers might ask for higher wages, pushing up labor costs and prompting businesses to charge more. Companies might begin to believe that consumers will accept price increases, making them less vigilant about avoiding them.
By making money more expensive to borrow, the Fed’s rate moves work relatively quickly to temper demand. As buying a house or a car or expanding a business becomes pricier, people pull back from doing those things. With fewer consumers and companies competing for the available supply of goods and services, price gains are able to moderate.
Unfortunately, that process could come at a hefty cost at a moment like this one. Bringing the economy into balance when supply is constrained — cars are hard to find because of semiconductor shortages, furniture is on back order, and jobs are more plentiful than laborers — could require a big decline in demand. Slowing the economy down that meaningfully could tip off a recession, leaving workers unemployed and families with lower incomes.


With the Federal Reserve set to deliver another big rate rise Wednesday, considerable uncertainty still surrounds the final destination for the central bank’s campaign of monetary policy tightening.
With the Federal Reserve set to deliver another big rate rise Wednesday, considerable uncertainty still surrounds the final destination for the central bank’s campaign of monetary policy tightening.
The rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee is almost certain to deliver a three quarter of a percentage point increase in its overnight target rate range, lifting it to between 2.25% and 2.5%. Based on comments by Fed officials, it won’t be the final level in a campaign aimed at combating the worst levels of inflation seen in four decades.


Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell on Wednesday said he did not believe the U.S. economy is currently in a recession but it is softening and the path for the Fed to avoid a recession continues to narrow.
Federal Reserve Board Chairman Jerome Powell speaks during a news conference following a two-day meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) in Washington, U.S., July 27, 2022. REUTERS/Elizabeth Frantz
July 27 (Reuters) - Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell on Wednesday said he did not believe the U.S. economy is currently in a recession but it is softening and the path for the Fed to avoid a recession continues to narrow.
"I don't think the economy is in recession right now," Powell said at a press conference following the central bank's latest two-day policy meeting. But officials do believe the economy needs a period of below-potential growth to create sufficient slack to lower inflation.
Register now for FREE unlimited access to Reuters.com Register
Reporting By Dan Burns Editing by Chris Reese
Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.


China’s government has rejected as a “political lie” a report by The Wall Street Journal that Beijing tried to recruit informants in the Federal Reserve system to obtain U.S. economic data.
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian gestures during a news conference at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Beijing, Wednesday, July 27, 2022. China's government on Wednesday rejected as a "political lie" a report by The Wall Street Journal that Beijing tried to recruit informants in the Federal Reserve system to obtain U.S. economic data. (AP Photo/Liu Zheng)
BEIJING – China’s government on Wednesday rejected as a “political lie” a report by The Wall Street Journal that Beijing tried to recruit informants in the Federal Reserve system to obtain U.S. economic data.
The report, citing an investigation by a Senate panel, adds to accusations of Chinese computer hacking and other efforts to steal U.S. commercial and government information.
The report “has no factual basis,” said a foreign ministry spokesman, Zhao Lijian.
The Journal said Chinese authorities tried to recruit employees of regional Fed banks by offering contracts. It said an employee who visited Shanghai in 2019 during U.S.-Chinese trade tension was threatened with prison to pressure the employee to disclose data including about tariffs.
“The report you mentioned is a political lie fabricated by a few Republican lawmakers who harbor ill intentions,” Zhao said in response to questions at a regular news briefing. He blamed “China-phobia and persecution mania.”
Ad
The Journal said the Senate panel’s report gave no indication whether sensitive information was lost in the decade-long effort that began in about 2013. It said internal Fed information could give insight into economic analysis, financial system oversight and interest rate policy.


Senate Democrats are calling on the Federal Reserve to proceed cautiously on raising interest rates when board members meet this week, warning that fighting inflation too aggressively could hurt the economy. Gross domestic product (GDP) data for the second quarter will be published this week and is expected to show a contraction in growth. But…
Senate Democrats are calling on the Federal Reserve to proceed cautiously on raising interest rates when board members meet this week, warning that fighting inflation too aggressively could hurt the economy.
Gross domestic product (GDP) data for the second quarter will be published this week and is expected to show a contraction in growth.
But Democrats in Congress are adopting the administration’s talking points to argue that two quarters of negative growth does not necessarily signal a recession, pointing to the strong labor market and rising wages, even if those positive developments are overshadowed by inflation.
“The economy is strong but if Fed Chair [Jerome] Powell continues these unprecedented aggressive rate increases, he could push it straight into recession,” said Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.). “I’ve talked to colleagues. I’ve also talked with economists who are increasingly speaking out.”
“There’s a reason the Fed acts independently in our system but it’s critical that Jerome Powell think about the implications of knocking millions of people out of work,” she said.
Warren warned in a Wall Street Journal op-ed Sunday that “the Fed risks triggering a devastating recession” by raising interest rates too far too fast to fight inflation.
She argued that supply-chain problems are a bigger cause for inflation than interest rates and predicted that aggressive rate hikes would be “largely ineffective against many of the underlying causes of this inflationary spike.”
Other Democrats are voicing the same concerns.
“I constantly worry that they are making such big jumps,” Sen. John Hickenlooper (D-Colo.) said of the Federal Reserve. “These interest rates have long-term effects in terms of people building infrastructure and making long-term investments.”
“If they were to ask my advice, I might suggest that they only raise it a half or a quarter [point],” he said.
Senate Budget Committee Chairman Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), a leading progressive, said Tuesday that he agrees with Warren and other Democrats who are urging the Fed not to raise rates too aggressively.
Federal Reserve board members will wrap up their two-day meeting on Wednesday, after which they are expected to announce a 0.75 percentage point interest rate hike.
It will be the fourth Fed rate hike of the year, bringing rates to between 2.25 percent and 2.5 percent.
The Fed projected last month that it would raise rates to 3.4 percent by the end of the year, which means that rate increases are also expected in September, November and December.
The central bank is under pressure to act boldly after the Bureau of Labor Statistics announced that inflation had jumped 9.1 percent in June compared to the year before.
But the three rate increases announced earlier this year already appear to be having an effect on the economy.
The 30-year fixed mortgage rate hit 5.5 percent in July, sending demand for new mortgages to a 22-year low.
Several major companies have announced layoffs or hiring slowdowns in recent weeks, including Facebook, Tesla, Shopify, Apple, Lyft and Google.
“Interest rates are a multi-edged sword, they have multiple impacts and [can be] very damaging on certain elements of our economy,” said Sen. Ben Cardin (D-Md.).
“We’ve had some discussions about affordable housing. It absolutely directly impacts affordable housing, housing stock,” he said. “When you raise interest rates it has a major negative impact, certainly on affordable housing.”
The Bureau of Economic Analysis is scheduled on Thursday to release its advance estimate of economic growth in the second quarter and economists expect GDP growth to be negative for the second straight quarter.
Two consecutive quarters of economic contraction is commonly considered the technical definition of a recession, but the Biden administration is pushing back against that claim by arguing that other factors signal a strong economy, notably the 3.6 percent national unemployment rate.
Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen said in an interview on NBC’s “Meet the Press” over the weekend that the National Bureau of Economic Research weighs a broader set of indicators in deciding whether to declare a recession.
“We’ve got a very strong labor market,” she said. “This is not an economy that’s in recession.”
“A recession is a broad-based contraction that affects many sectors of the economy. We just don’t have that,” she said, pointing out that industrial output has grown five of the past six months and household balance sheets “are generally in good shape” even though “inflation is way too high.”
At the same time, Yellen acknowledged that economists are seeing a “slowdown” in the economy, including slowing job growth.
Slowing growth has Democrats concerned the Fed may wind up overshooting by raising rates too quickly before the midterm elections, when many voters will cast their ballots based on how they view the health of the economy.
Senate Democratic Whip Dick Durbin (Ill.) said he shares Warren’s concern.
“They’ve got to make a call as to how serious this is. I agree with her. If you overdo it, you could push yourselves into a recession,” he said.
Sen. Mark Warner (Va.), an influential Democratic voice on economic issues, said “I think there’s a way to thread this needle,” urging the Fed to adopt a measured approach to rein in inflation without hurting the economy.
“I’ve heard members of the Fed themselves express their concerns as well about overshooting,” he said.


Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell Wednesday will address the Fed's plans to raise interest rates until inflation falls, even if it possibly slows economic growth.
Conflicting signs about the health of the U.S. economy have thrust the Federal Reserve into a difficult spot.
With inflation raging at a four-decade high, the job market strong and consumer spending still solid, the Fed is under pressure to raise interest rates aggressively.
But other signs suggest the economy is slowing and might even have shrunk in the first half of the year. Such evidence would typically lead the Fed to stop raising rates — or even cut them.
For now, though, the Fed is focused squarely on its inflation fight, and this week it’s set to announce another hefty hike in its benchmark interest rate. Together with its previous rate increases, the Fed's moves will make borrowing costlier for individuals and companies and likely weaken the economy over time.
RELATED: US inflation hit 8.6% in May, a new 40-year high
"Until there’s very clear evidence of the labor market beginning to meaningfully deteriorate, the No. 1 focus for the Fed must be inflation," said Matthew Luzzetti, chief U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank.
Gas prices are displayed at a petrol station in Monterey Park, California, on July 19, 2022. (FREDERIC J. BROWN/AFP via Getty Images)
When it ends its latest policy meeting Wednesday, the Fed is expected to impose a second consecutive three-quarter-point hike, elevating its key rate to a range of 2.25% to 2.5%. It will be its fourth rate hike since March, when it announced a quarter-point increase. Since then, with inflation setting new four-decade highs, the central bank has tightened credit ever more aggressively.
By raising borrowing rates, the Fed makes it costlier to take out a mortgage or an auto or business loan. In turn, consumers and businesses will likely borrow and spend less, cooling the economy and slowing price increases.
The Fed's hikes have already led to a doubling of the average rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage in the past year, to 5.5%, and home sales have tumbled. The central bank is betting it can slow growth just enough to tame inflation yet not so much as to trigger a recession — a risk that many analysts fear may end badly.
RELATED: Inflation hits rural towns: 'Groceries, utilities, gas, we’re seeing it everywhere'
The Fed's rate hikes aren't suited to address all the causes of high inflation. Higher borrowing rates can reduce spending. But they cannot reverse other factors, notably the global shortages of food, energy, factory parts and other items, which have been worsened by Russia's war against Ukraine and COVID-19-related shutdowns in China.
It will also likely take months for the Fed's higher rates to reduce spending on airline flights, restaurant meals and other services. Many economists worry that this means the Fed will have to clamp down even harder on consumer and business demand, to bring it into balance with the economy's restricted supply of goods and labor.
A news conference that Chair Jerome Powell will hold Wednesday — and whatever signals, if any, he sends about the Fed's next steps — will draw intense interest. Since the Fed met in June, the government has reported that inflation accelerated to a 9.1% annual rate, the most since 1981.
Though that jump reflected a spike in gas prices, which have since declined, inflation worsened even after excluding the volatile energy and food categories.
RELATED: Economy strain: Gas prices, inflation impacting Americans' wallets
The nation's June jobs report showed that hiring has remained healthy, with employers adding 372,000 jobs last month. Employers' continued need for labor has been elevating wages and contributing to inflation as companies pass their higher labor costs on to customers in the form of price increases.
Oddly enough, though, despite the robust job market and its role in keeping inflation high, by some measures the economy is barely growing, if at all. When the government reports Thursday on growth in the April-June period, it may show that the economy shrank for a second consecutive quarter.
Though two straight quarters of negative growth are sometimes seen as an informal definition of recession, few economists think the economy is in a downturn. Instead, recessions are defined by the National Bureau of Economic Research, a nonprofit group of economists.
The NBER assesses a broad range of data in determining recessions and places heavy weight on incomes and jobs. Economists note that employers have added 2.7 million jobs so far this year, which points to an economy far from recession.
RELATED: Inflation, expenses rise sharply as priorities for most Americans, poll finds
If, as expected, the Fed raises its short-term rate this week to 2.25% to 2.5%, it would move it near a level that officials think neither stimulates nor discourages growth. After that, the policymakers could raise the rate in smaller increments to levels that would slow the economy. Fed officials have signaled that they expect to raise it to a range of 3.25% to 3.5% by year's end.
On Wednesday, Powell is expected to hammer home the Fed's determination to raise rates until inflation falls, even at the risk of slowing growth too much.
"What we’re looking for is compelling evidence that inflationary pressures are abating and that inflation is moving back down," he said at a news conference after the Fed's June meeting. "We’d like to see that in the form of a series of declining monthly inflation readings."
At a central banking forum last month in Portugal, Powell added: "Is there a risk that we would go too far? Certainly there’s a risk, but I wouldn’t agree that’s the biggest risk to the economy. The biggest mistake to make…would be to fail to restore price stability."
Other officials have made clear they expect the Fed to continue raising rates for the foreseeable future.
"I have not seen any convincing evidence that inflation has turned the corner," said Loretta Mester, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, earlier this month.
Still, the economy's conflicting signals have whiplashed Fed policy for months, leaving many analysts calling for a clearer message. In June, policymakers had signaled that a half-point rate hike was likely — until just before their meeting, when expectations abruptly shifted to a three-quarter-point increase.
And after the June inflation report showed that price increases were accelerating, Wall Street traders bet that the Fed would impose a full percentage point hike this week. That expectation, too, faded after several Fed officials dismissed the idea. The rapid swing in expectations was "borderline ridiculous," Krishna Guha, an economist at Evercore ISI, an investment bank, wrote to clients.
The policymakers should "lay out the thinking a little bit more of how they see the pace of rate increases going forward," said Ellen Meade, an economics professor at Duke University and a former senior Fed economist. "Will they react to a dramatic slowing in the economy if that should occur before they see inflation slow in a meaningful way? Having a little more information as to how they’re thinking about it could be helpful."


The Federal Reserve is on track for another steep interest rate hike Wednesday despite growing fears its fight against inflation could push the U.S. into a recession.
(The Hill) – The Federal Reserve is on track for another steep interest rate hike Wednesday despite growing fears its fight against inflation could push the U.S. into a recession.
Fed officials are expected to announce another 0.75 percentage point interest rate hike Wednesday as both job growth and price growth rose, according to federal data.
The Fed has aggressively boosted interest rates since March to bring prices down after waiting in vain for months for inflation to decline. The bank has already hiked its baseline interest rate range by 1.5 percentage points this year, including a 0.75 percentage point hike in June.
“To the Fed, obviously job No. 1 is getting inflation down, and hopefully down without setting the economy in recession, but that isn’t a prerequisite,” said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody’s Analytics.
“That’s really hard, because a lot of inflation is coming from things that are out of their control.”
The U.S. economy has shown signs of slowing under the pressure of higher Fed interest rates, which is a key step in the bank’s goal of bringing inflation down. Housing sales have plunged as mortgage rates rise, stock values have dropped and businesses are pulling back on plans to hire and expand with profit margins narrowing.
But the war in Ukraine and ongoing supply chain issues driven by the pandemic have kept up pressure on food and energy prices, pushing the Fed to go even further with rate hikes.
Karen Shaw Petrou, managing partner at Federal Financial Analytics, said the pressures facing the Fed “have only gotten” worse since the bank raised rates in June, forcing the Fed to make tough choices.
“You got no meaningful curb on inflation, even with a sharp rate rise. At the same time, financial market stresses and the impact of this inflation on household spending are curbing economic growth,” Petrou said, arguing the Fed should have begun hiking much sooner.
“It’s the worst of both worlds. There’s no good answer.”
Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell and other top officials at the central bank have stressed for months that they will raise interest rates as high as necessary to bring inflation down. While Powell said the U.S. may be able to avoid a recession in the process, he acknowledged it has become harder for the Fed to avert a downturn.
Powell previously said reducing inflation back to the Fed’s target range is far more important to the long-term health of the economy.
“We fully understand and appreciate the pain people are going through dealing with higher inflation. We have the tools to address that and the resolve to use them,” Powell said last month.
“The process is likely — highly likely — to involve some pain, but the worst pain would be from failing to address this high inflation and allowing it to become persistent.”
How much pain the economy feels depends largely on how far the Fed believes it needs to go to curb inflation. And economists say that’s far from clear.
Inflation has steamed ahead throughout the summer even as the broader economy slows under the weight of higher interest rates and shock waves from the war in Ukraine.
Prices rose 9.1 percent annually in June and 1.2 percent last month alone, according to Labor Department data released last week, even though gross domestic product likely declined for the second straight quarter. Weekly unemployment claims still remain low, but have risen to their highest level since November as a growing number of companies shed jobs amid a slowing economy.
Consumer confidence in the economy has also fallen sharply, and while retail spending has grown, further pressure from inflation and interest rate hikes could soon lead to a nosedive in spending.
“Consumers’ increased pessimism is consistent with our view that consumer spending and the broader economy are downshifting to a much slower growth path amid high inflation, rapidly-rising interest rates, and financial market volatility,” Lydia Boussour, lead U.S. economist at Oxford Economics, wrote in a Tuesday analysis.
“While we still see strong economic fundamentals preventing the US economy from slipping into recession this year, the pathway to a softish landing is narrowing.”
Most economists do not believe the U.S. is in a recession yet despite mounting signs of the economy slowing.
The country has added 2.5 million jobs since the start of 2022, including 372,000 in June alone, with an unemployment rate of 3.6 percent. In fact, the resilience of the job market and a record ratio of open jobs to unemployed workers are among several factors preventing the Fed from bringing inflation down.
Zandi said the U.S. is “not even close” to being in a recession right now because of the strength of the job market, but he acknowledged that the risks of a recession are rising.
“We’re on the precipice. It won’t take a lot to push us over,” Zandi said.
Zandi said the Fed should signal that it won’t be hiking interest rates as fast in the future.
Some left-leaning policy experts and lawmakers, including Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), have urged the Fed to stop hiking rates entirely, insisting it would doom the economy.
“Rising costs are an urgent problem, and interest rates play a key role in maintaining price stability. But urgency is no excuse for doubling down on a dangerous treatment,” Warren wrote in a Monday op-ed for The Wall Street Journal.
But Petrou said the Fed has no choice but to push ahead with interest rate hikes to curb inflation, insisting job losses and deep despair would visit the economy no matter what if the bank doesn’t get prices under control.
“Households are already starting to curb discretionary spending, and they will do so more and you’re going to have higher unemployment anyway. That’s the devil the Fed has created.”


The dollar edged further away from recent 20-year highs on Wednesday ahead of the U.S. Federal Reserve policy meeting, at which the central bank is expected to raise rates by another 75 basis points to tame soaring inflation. But moves in currency markets were modest as traders await the policy announcement at 1800 GMT.
The dollar edged further away from recent 20-year highs on Wednesday ahead of the U.S. Federal Reserve policy meeting, at which the central bank is expected to raise rates by another 75 basis points to tame soaring inflation.
But moves in currency markets were modest as traders await the policy announcement at 1800 GMT. Money markets are betting that the Fed will raise rates by 75 basis points (bps), with an outside chance of a larger 100 bps hike. Traders expect the Fed to take the rate to as high as 3.4% by year-end to help bring inflation back to target.
Bets on oversized rate hikes helped push the dollar index to its highest level in almost 20 years earlier this month at 109.29, with the greenback currently up 2.3% in July. At 0758 GMT, the dollar index was down 0.1% at 107.
"Markets are taking a bit off the table before tonight's Fed meeting," said Simon Harvey, head of FX analysis at Monex Europe. "Barring any imminent headlines on European energy or political developments I think we will see very limited ranges."
The euro edged 0.3% higher to $1.0144 but failed to recoup much of Tuesday's 1.0% slide, its biggest fall in over two weeks, after fears of a European recession escalated when Russia further cut gas supplies to Europe through the Nord Stream 1 pipeline. Analysts said the focus in Europe remained on the gas supply situation and Italian yields, which have risen on Wednesday after rating agency S&P Global revised its outlook on Italy's rating to stable from positive.
"We expect that EUR will struggle to move higher while gas prices remain this high," said Colin Asher, senior economist at Mizuho in a note. Meanwhile, the Australian dollar dropped 0.2% to $0.6926 even as year-on-year core inflation hit 4.9% in June, well above the Reserve Bank of Australia's target, as the figure was not as high as some investors feared and some rate hike bets were pulled back.
Traders are now pricing in around an 86% chance of a 50 bps rate hike by the RBA next week, and a 14% of a more modest 25 bps hike. The dollar was flat at 137 yen and against the safe-haven Swiss franc at $0.9628.
In cryptocurrencies, bitcoin was steady at $21,410.
(This story has not been edited by Devdiscourse staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)


