Meanwhile, American women expect far less than men when it comes to salary in a new job offer, according to the new Federal Reserve data.
article
American workers’ expectations when it comes to salary have risen to a new high of nearly $76,000 a year, according to new data from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
The average reservation wage – or the lowest wage that someone would be willing to accept for a new job – rose to $75,811 in March. The data comes from the New York Fed’s most recent SCE Labor Market Survey , which said the figure is $2,144 higher than it was in November 2022, when the survey was last conducted.
Respondents were asked about the lowest annual salary they would be most likely to accept if they were offered a job in their industry.
RELATED: The best time to sell your home is this week, data reveals
When comparing expectations of male and female workers, the Fed’s survey found that men increased their wage expectations since November by about 4% to $88,883. Women, on the other hand, increased their wage expectations by slightly over 2% to $63,069.
Meanwhile, those with a college degree now expect $97,270 annually to accept a new job. Those with less than a college degree actually reduced their wage expectations since November by $160 to $59,683.
For comparison, the median U.S. household income was just shy of $71,000 in 2021, according to the U.S. Census Bureau .
The new high in average reservation wage comes as America’s employers added a strong 236,000 jobs in March, suggesting that the economy remains on solid footing despite the nine interest rate hikes the Federal Reserve has imposed over the past year in its drive to tame inflation.
The unemployment rate fell to 3.5% , just above the 53-year low of 3.4% set in January, according to data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
RELATED: Social Security cost-of-living adjustment could be much smaller next year
This story was reported from Cincinnati. The Associated Press contributed.


In the US, investors are awaiting the Federal Reserve’s latest interest rate decision amid hopes that tonight’s quarter point increase will be the last in the cycle. However, jobs data from ADP and service sector inflation statistics from S&P suggest the US economy is still running hot.
I n the US, investors are awaiting the Federal Reserve’s latest interest rate decision amid hopes that tonight’s quarter point increase will be the last in the cycle. However, jobs data from ADP and service sector inflation statistics from S&P suggest the US economy is still running hot.
Closer to home, the FTSE 100 index today regained some lost ground during a busy session for blue-chip updates, but remains well below where it started the week.
Alongside the latest developments at Lloyds Banking Group, Flutter Entertainment and Barratt Developments, markets have reacted to the FCA’s decision last night to reform listing rules in order to make it easier for companies to list in London.


If, as expected, the Federal Reserve raises interest rates yet again in its drive to cool...
This is a carousel. Use Next and Previous buttons to navigate
NEW YORK (AP) — If, as expected, the Federal Reserve raises interest rates yet again Wednesday in its drive to cool inflation, much of America will be directly affected.
Rates on credit cards, mortgages and auto loans, which have been surging since the Fed began raising rates last year, all stand to rise even more. The result will be more burdensome loan costs for both consumers and businesses.
On the other hand, many banks are now offering higher rates on savings accounts, giving savers the opportunity to earn more interest.
Economists worry, though, about whether the Fed’s streak of 10 rate hikes since March 2022 will eventually cause the economy to slow too much and cause a recession.
Here’s what to know:
WHAT’S PROMPTING THE RATE INCREASES?
The short answer: Inflation. Inflation has been slowing in recent months, but it's still high. Measured over a year earlier, consumer prices were up 5% in March, down sharply from February’s 6% year-over-year increase.
The Fed’s goal is to slow consumer spending, thereby reducing demand for homes, cars and other goods and services, eventually cooling the economy and lowering prices.
Fed Chair Jerome Powell has acknowledged in the past that aggressively raising rates would bring “some pain” for households but said that doing so is necessary to crush high inflation.
WHO IS MOST AFFECTED?
Anyone borrowing money to make a large purchase, such as a home, car or large appliance, will likely take a hit. The new rate will also increase monthly payments and costs for any consumer who is already paying interest on credit card debt.
“Consumers should focus on building up emergency savings and paying down debt,” said Greg McBride, Bankrate.com's chief financial analyst. “Even if this proves to be the final Fed rate hike, interest rates are still high and will remain that way.”
WHAT'S HAPPENING WITH CREDIT CARDS?
Even before the Fed’s latest move, credit card borrowing had reached the highest level since 1996, according to Bankrate.com.
The most recent data available showed that 46% of people were carrying debt from month to month, up from 39% a year ago. Total credit card balances were $986 billion in the fourth quarter of 2022, according to the Fed, a record high, though that amount isn’t adjusted for inflation.
For those who don’t qualify for low-rate credit cards because of weak credit scores, the higher interest rates are already affecting their balances.
HOW WILL AN INCREASE AFFECT CREDIT CARD RATES?
The Fed doesn’t directly dictate how much interest you pay on your credit card debt. But the Fed’s rate is the basis for your bank’s prime rate. In combination with other factors, such as your credit score, the prime rate helps determine the Annual Percentage Rate, or APR, on your credit card.
The latest increase will likely raise the APR on your credit card 0.25%. So, if you have a 20.9% rate, which is the average according to the Fed's data, it might increase to 21.15%.
If you don’t carry a balance from month to month, the APR is less important.
But suppose you have a $4,000 credit balance and your interest rate is 20%. If you made only a fixed payment of $110 per month, it would take you a bit under five years to pay off your credit card debt, and you would pay about $2,200 in interest.
If your APR increased by a percentage point, paying off your balance would take two months longer and cost an additional $215.
WHAT IF I HAVE MONEY TO SAVE?
After years of paying low rates for savers, some banks are finally offering better interest on deposits. Though the increases may seem small, compounding interest adds up over the years.
Interest on savings accounts doesn't always track what the Fed does. But as rates have continued to rise, some banks have improved their terms for savers as well. Even if you’re only keeping modest savings in your bank account, you could make more significant gains over the long term by finding an account with a better rate.
While the biggest national banks have yet to dramatically change the rates on their savings accounts (clocking in at an average of just 0.23%, according to Bankrate), some mid-size and smaller banks have made changes more in line with the Fed’s moves.
Online banks in particular — which save money by not having brick-and-mortar branches and associated expenses — are now offering savings accounts with annual percentage yields of between 3% and 4%, or even higher, as well as 4% or higher on one-year Certificates of Deposit (CDs). Some promotional rates can reach as high as 5%.
WILL THIS AFFECT HOME OWNERSHIP?
Last week, mortgage buyer Freddie Mac reported that the average rate on the benchmark 30-year mortgage edged up to 6.43% from 6.39% the week prior. A year ago, the average rate was lower: 5.10%. Higher rates can add hundreds of dollars a month to mortgage payments.
Rates for 30-year mortgages usually track the moves in the 10-year Treasury yield. Rates can also be influenced by investors’ expectations for future inflation, global demand for U.S. Treasuries and what the Fed does.
Most mortgages last for decades, so if you already have a mortgage, you won't be impacted. But if you're looking to buy and already paying more for food, gas and other necessities, a higher mortgage rate could put home ownership out of reach.
WHAT IF I WANT TO BUY A CAR?
With shortages of computer chips and other parts easing, automakers are producing more vehicles. Many are even reducing prices or offering limited discounts. But rising loan rates and lower used-vehicle trade-in values have erased much of the savings on monthly payments.
Since the Fed began raising rates in March 2022, the average new-vehicle loan rate has jumped from 4.5% to 7%, according to Edmunds data. Used vehicle loans dropped slightly to 11.1%. Loan durations average around 70 months — nearly six years — for new and used vehicles.
Largely because of rate increases, the average monthly payment for both new and used vehicles has risen since March 2022, Edmunds says. The average new vehicle payment is up $72 to $729, Edmunds says. For used vehicles, the payment rose $20 a month to $546.
The higher rates will keep out of the market people who have the ability to wait for more favorable terms, said Joseph Yoon, Edmunds’ consumer insights analyst.
“But with inventory levels improving, it’s a matter of time before discounts and incentives start coming back into the equation," attracting more buyers, Yoon said.
New vehicle average prices are down from the end of last year to $47,749. But they're still high compared with even a year ago. The average used vehicle price dropped 7% from last May's peak, to $28,729, but prices are edging back up.
Financing a new vehicle now costs $8,655 in interest. Analysts say that's enough to chase many out of the auto market.
Any Fed rate increase is typically passed through to auto borrowers, though it will be offset a bit by subsidized rates from manufacturers.
WHAT ABOUT MY JOB?
The nation’s employers kept hiring in March, adding a healthy 236,000 jobs. The unemployment rate fell to 3.5%, just above the 53-year low of 3.4% set in January. At the same time, the report from the Labor Department suggested a slowdown, with pay growth also easing.
Some economists argue that layoffs could help slow rising prices, and that a tight labor market fuels wage growth and higher inflation.
Economists expect the unemployment rate to go up to 3.6% in April, a slight increase from January's half-century low of 3.4%.
WILL THIS AFFECT STUDENT LOANS?
Borrowers who take out new private student loans should prepare to pay more as as rates increase. The current range for federal loans is between about 5% and 7.5%.
That said, payments on federal student loans are suspended with zero interest until summer 2023 as part of an emergency measure put in place early in the pandemic. President Joe Biden has also announced some loan forgiveness, of up to $10,000 for most borrowers, and up to $20,000 for Pell Grant recipients — a policy that’s now being challenged in the courts.
___
AP Business Writers Christopher Rugaber in Washington, Tom Krisher in Detroit and Damian Troise and Ken Sweet in New York contributed to this report.
___
The Associated Press receives support from Charles Schwab Foundation for educational and explanatory reporting to improve financial literacy. The independent foundation is separate from Charles Schwab and Co. Inc. The AP is solely responsible for its journalism.


The Federal Reserve latest policy decision on Wednesday could mark the end of its rate hiking campaign, the most aggressive from the central bank since the 1980s.
Investors expect the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates by another 0.25% on Wednesday in a move that could mark the end of its most aggressive rate hiking cycle since the 1980s.
A 25 basis point increase in the fed funds rate would bring the target range for the Fed's benchmark interest rate to 5%-5.25%, the highest since September 2007.
The Fed will announce its policy decision at 2 p.m. ET followed by Fed Chair Jay Powell's press conference at 2:30 p.m. ET.
The central bank is still battling inflation, which has come down from 40-year highs reached in June 2022 but that remains well above the Fed’s 2% target. Consumer prices as measured by the "core" Consumer Price Index (CPI) — which excludes the more volatile costs of food and energy — rose 5.6% in March.
Additionally, a series of bank failures since early March has caused some Fed officials in recent weeks to reconsider raising rates to levels previously considered necessary to bring down inflation.
A 0.25% interest rate hike on Wednesday would put rates in-line with Fed projections released in March, which suggested the majority of officials expect rates will end 2023 between 5%-5.25%. No new interest rate projections will be released Wednesday; the Fed will update these forecasts next month.
The key question for investors is whether Fed Chair will signal the central bank is likely to pause after Wednesday's decision or whether Powell deliberately keeps the door open to further hikes.
"I believe they will signal they expect to pause," Luke Tilley, chief economist for Wilmington Trust, told Yahoo Finance in an interview last week.
"The data that's come out in wake of the last [Summary of Economic Projections] fits with the median forecast — not to say everyone thinks the same thing — but a lot of statements from FOMC participants point to them wanting to take a pause here."
ARCHIVO - El presidente de la Reserva Federal, Jerome Powell, se retira del podio después de una conferencia de prensa en la sede de la Fed, el miércoles 22 de marzo de 2023, en Washington. (AP Foto/Alex Brandon, archivo)
Click here for the latest economic news and economic indicators to help you in your investing decisions
Read the latest financial and business news from Yahoo Finance


The Federal Reserve is expected to raise interest rates for the 10th consecutive time. Amid renewed banking turmoil, economists think that it could be the central bank’s last move before it pauses.
The average interest rate on new-car loans was 7 percent in March, according to Edmunds, up nearly a percentage point from six months earlier.
As the Federal Reserve has steadily lifted its key interest rate over the past year, Americans have seen the effects on both sides of the household ledger: Savers benefit from higher yields, but borrowers pay more.
Here’s how rising rates affect consumers.
Credit Cards
Credit card rates are closely linked to the Fed’s actions, so consumers with revolving debt can expect to see those rates rise, usually within one or two billing cycles. The average credit card rate was just over 20 percent as of April 26, according to Bankrate.com, up from around 16 percent in March last year, when the Fed began its series of rate increases.
Car Loans
Car loans tend to track the five-year Treasury note, which is influenced by the Fed’s key rate — but that’s not the only factor that determines how much you’ll pay.
A borrower’s credit history, the type of vehicle, loan term and down payment are all baked into that rate calculation. The average interest rate on new-car loans was 7 percent in March, according to Edmunds, up nearly a percentage point from six months earlier.
Student Loans
Whether the rate increase will affect your student loan payments depends on the type of loan you have.
The rate for current federal student loan borrowers isn’t affected because those loans carry a fixed rate set by the government. The Biden administration’s program to cancel up to $20,000 in federal loans has been blocked by legal challenges that recently reached the Supreme Court; the court heard arguments in February and is expected to reach a decision in coming months.
But new batches of federal loans are priced each July, based on the 10-year Treasury bond auction in May. Rates on those loans have already jumped: Borrowers with federal undergraduate loans disbursed after July 1 (and before July 1, 2023) will pay 4.99 percent, up from 3.73 percent for loans disbursed the year-earlier period.
Borrowers of private student loans should also expect to pay more: Both fixed- and variable-rate loans are linked to benchmarks that track the federal funds rate. Those increases usually show up within a month.
Mortgages
Rates on 30-year fixed mortgages don’t move in tandem with the Fed’s benchmark rate, but instead generally track the yield on 10-year Treasury bonds, which are influenced by a variety of factors, including expectations around inflation, the Fed’s actions and how investors react to all of it.
After climbing above 7 percent in November, for the first time since 2002, mortgage rates dipped close to 6 percent in February before drifting back up to 6.4 percent last week, according to Freddie Mac. The average rate for an identical loan was 5.1 percent the same week in 2022.
Other home loans are more closely tethered to the Fed’s move. Home equity lines of credit and adjustable-rate mortgages — which each carry variable interest rates — generally rise within two billing cycles after a change in the Fed’s rates.
Savings Vehicles
Savers seeking a better return on their money will have an easier time — yields have been rising, but not uniformly.
An increase in the Fed’s key rate often means banks will pay more interest on their deposits, though it doesn’t always happen right away. They tend to raise their rates when they want to bring more money in, and recent turmoil in the financial industry may push banks to raise rates to convince anxious depositors to keep money in their accounts.
Rates on certificates of deposit, which tend to track similarly dated Treasury securities, have been ticking higher. The average one-year C.D. at online banks was 4.7 percent at the start of April, up from 0.7 percent a year earlier, according to DepositAccounts.com.


Wall Street's major indexes were struggling for direction on Wednesday while U.S. Treasury yields fell with traders awaiting an interest rate hike from the U.S. Federal Reserve and for its view on the path forward for rates.
[1/3] Traders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) in New York City, U.S., May 3, 2023. REUTERS/Brendan McDermid
Summary
Summary Companies MSCI index up slightly; gold above $2,000 an ounce
Dollar dips with Treasury yields, stocks lose some steam
Oil down ~4%, deepening Tuesday's slump
Fed decision due 1800 GMT, 25bps hike expected
SINGAPORE, May 3 (Reuters) - Wall Street's major indexes were struggling for direction on Wednesday while U.S. Treasury yields fell with traders awaiting an interest rate hike from the U.S. Federal Reserve and for its view on the path forward for rates.
Oil futures sold off sharply after a 5% slump on Tuesday as investors worried about the health of the economy ahead of the Fed's statement and a press conference by Chair Jerome Powell Wednesday afternoon.
While the dollar index fell, long-term U.S. Treasury yields drifted lower while yields on shorter-dated bills ticked up, as investors positioned themselves before the end of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting.
A majority of traders are betting that Powell will announce a 25-basis-point rate hike but investors are waiting for reassurance that the central bank will pause hiking after today.
Shares in U.S. banks stabilized after being hammered on Tuesday and causing a ripple effect sell-off in the broader market on concerns that the failure of a third major U.S. bank over the weekend may not be the end of the banking crisis.
While the major indexes opened slightly higher on Wednesday they had lost some steam by late morning.
"It could be a completely different day once we hear from Jerome Powell," said Alex Coffey, senior trading strategist at TD Ameritrade who sees investors mostly be focused on Powell's commentary.
"We haven't really had a surprise when it comes to the Fed funds rate in some time. It's going to hinge on the forward guidance," he said.
Along with clues about the rate hiking path investors will also be listening carefully for Powell's view on the U.S. banking industry, according to Coffey.
This week they also have to watch for earnings reports and wait for Friday's U.S. jobs report, and what it might reveal about the economy.
And Wall Street is also keeping a wary eye on the U.S. debt ceiling, with lawmakers squabbling and Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen warning of a potential money shortfall as soon as June 1.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average (.DJI) fell 69.01 points, or 0.2%, to 33,615.52, the S&P 500 (.SPX) lost 4.03 points, or 0.10%, to 4,115.55 and the Nasdaq Composite (.IXIC) added 18.24 points, or 0.15%, to 12,098.74.
The pan-European STOXX 600 index (.STOXX) rose 0.29% and MSCI's gauge of stocks across the globe (.MIWD00000PUS) gained 0.12%.
The dollar fell ahead of the Fed statement indicating bets that it make indicate a pause in the hiking cycle, which could lead to further dollar declines.
The dollar index fell 0.461%, with the euro up 0.5% to $1.1054.
The Japanese yen strengthened 1.04% versus the greenback at 135.13 per dollar, while Sterling was last trading at $1.2539, up 0.60% on the day.
“There’s every indication and every anticipation that the Fed will raise today and then it will pause,” said Joseph Trevisani, senior analyst at FXStreet.com.
In U.S. Treasuries, benchmark 10-year notes were down 6.4 basis points to 3.375%, from 3.439% late on Tuesday.
The 30-year bond was last down 6.4 basis points to yield 3.6681%, from 3.732% while the 2-year note was last down 4.5 basis points to yield 3.9346%, from 3.98%.
In energy, U.S. crude recently fell 4.06% to $68.75 per barrel and Brent was at $72.44, down 3.82%.
Gold held its gains from the previous session on Wednesday as economic uncertainty countered strong private payrolls data, while investors positioned for the Fed.
Spot gold added 0.3% to $2,022.10 an ounce. U.S. gold futures gained 0.22% to $2,018.70 an ounce.
Editing by Lincoln Feast
Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.


U.S. stocks on Wednesday seesawed ahead of the Federal Reserve's monetary policy decision later in the day
U.S. stocks on Wednesday seesawed ahead of the Federal Reserve's monetary policy decision later in the day. Investors expect the central bank to hike rates by 25 basis points and then signal a pause.
The tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite (COMP.IND) opened higher and was clinging onto slight gains, up 0.17% to 12,101.52 points. The benchmark S&P 500 (SP500) and blue-chip Dow (DJI) swung between gains and losses, with the former slipping 0.05% to 4,117.42 points and the latter falling 0.20% to 33,616.77 points.
Of the 11 S&P sectors, six were trading in the green, led by Communication Services and Real Estate.
Energy topped the losers for a second straight day, as crude oil futures extended their decline to below $70. The sector had suffered solid losses in the previous session amid disappointing economic data out of China and jitters around the regional banking space at home.
The Fed is expected to raise rates by 25 basis points, which many market participants believe could be the last hike of what has been an ultra-aggressive tightening cycle.
"Strains in the banking sector continue to cause headaches at the Fed, while the Treasury worries about the debt limit," SocGen's Kit Juckes said. "A 25bp hike and a heavy hint (at least) that we will then see a pause, is the consensus view of today’s Fed meeting. Surprises could include an emphasis on the possibility they will do more (but would the market believe them) or a decision to stay on hold. Either way, the economy is clearly losing momentum now."
"Tactically, a dovish hike may be taken as an all clear to buying risk and a hawkish hike could jolt market pricing of no hikes beyond June," Steve Englander, strategist at Standard Chartered said. "We don’t see why the Fed would want either outcome and communicating something in the middle will be a challenge. By contrast waiting until June will provide more clarity on banks and the debt ceiling as well as provide two more NFP and CPI reads – that seems prudent given the uncertainty in markets."
Turning to the fixed income markets, longer-end Treasury yields extended their decline, with the 10-year yield (US10Y) down 7 basis points to 3.37% and the more rate-sensitive 2-year yield (US2Y) down 5 basis points to 3.93%. Meanwhile, shorter-end maturities continued to see selling amid the debt-ceiling debate, with the 1-month yield (US1M) up 7 basis points to 4.44%.
"Whilst yields moved lower across most of the curve (on Tuesday), there were some seismic movements at the very front-end, with yields on near-term T-bills spiking after Treasury Secretary Yellen warned that the government could hit the debt ceiling as early as June 1," Deutsche Bank's Jim Reid said. "For instance, one bill that matures on June 8 spiked up by +85bps at one point before finishing up +45bps on the day, ending the day at 5.230%. For now at least, there hasn’t been much signs of progress on the political side either, which is further concerning investors."
Wednesday's economic calendar saw some more data on the labor market coming in ahead of the Fed decision time, with ADP's measure of private payrolls in April showing a 296K increase versus a predicted rise of 148K jobs.
Additionally, ISM services PMI for April rose slightly above expectations while S&P's gauge of U.S. composite PMI for April came largely in-line.
Earnings news continued to remain the spotlight. Advanced Micro Devices (AMD) slumped more than 7% and was among the top percentage losers on the Nasdaq Composite (COMP.IND) as Wall Street reacted negatively to the semiconductor company's guidance.
Starbucks (SBUX) was also among the top Nasdaq percentage losers after some investors were disappointed with the coffee giant's outlook.
More on the markets


If the Federal Reserve doesn't signal that Wednesday's rate hike is the last one, the S&P 500 could be in for an ugly day.
The ground just shifted ahead of today's Federal Reserve meeting. A quarter-point rate hike still appears likely. Yet as regional bank stocks plunged on Tuesday, markets effectively issued a warning to Fed chair Jerome Powell. The upshot: If the Fed doesn't signal that today's hike is the last one, the S&P 500 could be in for an ugly day.
X
Future Fed Rate Hike Odds Fall To Zero
Here's what happened: As of Monday afternoon, markets were still pricing in nearly 30% odds that the Federal Reserve would hike today and then once more on June 14. Yet Tuesday saw continued fallout for regional bank stocks, defying FDIC hopes that the arranged sale of First Republic Bank to JPMorgan Chase (JPM) would help stabilize markets. PacWest Bancorp (PACW) plunged 27.8% and Western Alliance Bancorp (WAL) 15.1%. Even super regional banks got creamed, with Comerica (CMA) down 12.4% and KeyCorp (KEY) 9.4%.
By Tuesday afternoon, near-30% odds of a June rate hike fell to zero. Odds of June hike creeped back up to 5% early Wednesday, after payroll processor ADP estimated that private employers added a surprisingly strong 296,000 jobs in April.
Yet the 2-year Treasury yield slipped further under 4%, the lowest in more than a year, excluding the height of the banking panic in the first half of March. That's a sign the economy is on thin ice.
Those bank stock declines are symptomatic of the tightening of bank credit that was already underway before SVB Financial Group's abrupt failure in March escalated the problem. The Fed is partly to blame, having let inflation get away, then resorted to rapid-fire rate hikes to contain it. Now banks have plenty of low-interest loans on their books, along with troubled commercial real estate loans. Yet banks are having to fight to hang onto their deposits by offering high savings-account interest rates that can compete with money market interest rates around 5%.
With bank credit tightening and claims for unemployment benefits climbing as layoffs mount, markets are betting on multiple rate cuts in the second half of the year.
There's also another reason chances of a June rate hike have suddenly gone out the window. With federal tax payments coming in more slowly than expected, both Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen and the Congressional Budget Office issued notices on Monday that time for a deal to raise the debt ceiling will run out by early June. Markets may already be volatile around that deadline, even without Fed uncertainty.
Federal Reserve Meeting Policy Statement
Wall Street isn't asking the Federal Reserve to come to the rescue yet. But investors need a signal that the Fed won't strangle the economy and sacrifice regional banks to kill inflation.
A status quo Fed meeting statement — "some additional policy firming may be appropriate" — would keep a bias toward tightening and likely send the S&P 500 sliding as markets reprice the odds of a June rate hike.
The Fed doesn't need to go so far as to say that rate hikes are done. Simply dropping its tightening bias and suspending guidance will be interpreted as an intention to stand pat — barring a big inflation surprise.
That approach would turn today's rate hike into a "dovish hike," wrote Nomura economists Aichi Amemiya and Jacob Meyer.
Still, the Nomura economists think that Fed chair Powell will make clear that near-term rate cuts are unlikely, "pushing against the current market pricing of a couple of rate cuts by the end of this year."
Futures Await Fed; AMD Tumbles, Lilly Jumps On Alzheimer's Drug
Will Fed Provide S&P 500 Rally Fuel?
Since futures pricing already implies no chance of a June rate hike, how might the S&P 500 respond if the Fed meeting statement drops the tightening bias? That wouldn't seem to be major rally fuel, but don't rule out some moderate fireworks.
Just consider what happened after last July's Fed meeting when chair Powell decided to stop offering specific forward guidance. At the time, "making decisions meeting by meeting" simply meant keeping options open between another 75-basis-point rate hike in September and a more moderate, perhaps 50-basis-point, move.
Yet markets interpreted the glass as half-full and the S&P 500 went on a 5% run over three sessions.
The S&P 500 rose 0.35% to 4135 in early Wednesday stock market action. On Monday, the S&P 500 made a run at the Feb. 2 high of 4195 before reversing lower. A Fed pause signal might set the S&P 500 for another try at busting through the top of its trading range dating back to late August.
On the perhaps unlikely chance that the Fed keeps its tightening bias, the first real line of support for the S&P 500 would be near the 50-day moving average around 4036.
Be sure to read IBD's The Big Picture every day to stay in sync with the market direction and what it means for your trading decisions.
YOU MAY ALSO LIKE:
These Are The Best 5 Stocks To Buy And Watch Now
Join IBD Live And Learn Top Chart-Reading And Trading Techniques From The Pros
Find The Best Growth Stocks To Buy And Watch
IBD Digital: Unlock IBD's Premium Stock Lists, Tools And Analysis Today
IBD Stock Of The Day: GDX Stock Shines As Bank Woes, Debt-Ceiling Fears Lift Gold Price


Federal Reserve chairman Jerome Powell is slated to speak to reporters Wednesday, with the Fed widely expected to announce another interest rate hike. Powell will speak after the Fed’s policy panel, the Federal Open Markets Committee, makes a decision on what could be the 10th consecutive rate increase since March 2022. The Fed has waged…
Federal Reserve chairman Jerome Powell is slated to speak to reporters Wednesday, with the Fed widely expected to announce another interest rate hike.
Powell will speak after the Fed’s policy panel, the Federal Open Markets Committee, makes a decision on what could be the 10th consecutive rate increase since March 2022.
The Fed has waged a campaign to bring down inflation, though it has faced rising calls to ease up amid fears of an economic downturn.
The event is scheduled to begin at 2:30 p.m. ET.
Watch the video above.


If, as expected, the Federal Reserve raises interest rates yet again in its drive to cool inflation, much of America will be directly affected.
NEW YORK – If, as expected, the Federal Reserve raises interest rates yet again Wednesday in its drive to cool inflation, much of America will be directly affected.
Rates on credit cards, mortgages and auto loans, which have been surging since the Fed began raising rates last year, all stand to rise even more. The result will be more burdensome loan costs for both consumers and businesses.
On the other hand, many banks are now offering higher rates on savings accounts, giving savers the opportunity to earn more interest.
Economists worry, though, about whether the Fed’s streak of 10 rate hikes since March 2022 will eventually cause the economy to slow too much and cause a recession.
Here’s what to know:
WHAT’S PROMPTING THE RATE INCREASES?
The short answer: Inflation. Inflation has been slowing in recent months, but it's still high. Measured over a year earlier, consumer prices were up 5% in March, down sharply from February’s 6% year-over-year increase.
The Fed’s goal is to slow consumer spending, thereby reducing demand for homes, cars and other goods and services, eventually cooling the economy and lowering prices.
Fed Chair Jerome Powell has acknowledged in the past that aggressively raising rates would bring “some pain” for households but said that doing so is necessary to crush high inflation.
WHO IS MOST AFFECTED?
Anyone borrowing money to make a large purchase, such as a home, car or large appliance, will likely take a hit. The new rate will also increase monthly payments and costs for any consumer who is already paying interest on credit card debt.
“Consumers should focus on building up emergency savings and paying down debt,” said Greg McBride, Bankrate.com's chief financial analyst. “Even if this proves to be the final Fed rate hike, interest rates are still high and will remain that way.”
WHAT'S HAPPENING WITH CREDIT CARDS?
Even before the Fed’s latest move, credit card borrowing had reached the highest level since 1996, according to Bankrate.com.
The most recent data available showed that 46% of people were carrying debt from month to month, up from 39% a year ago. Total credit card balances were $986 billion in the fourth quarter of 2022, according to the Fed, a record high, though that amount isn’t adjusted for inflation.
For those who don’t qualify for low-rate credit cards because of weak credit scores, the higher interest rates are already affecting their balances.
HOW WILL AN INCREASE AFFECT CREDIT CARD RATES?
The Fed doesn’t directly dictate how much interest you pay on your credit card debt. But the Fed’s rate is the basis for your bank’s prime rate. In combination with other factors, such as your credit score, the prime rate helps determine the Annual Percentage Rate, or APR, on your credit card.
The latest increase will likely raise the APR on your credit card 0.25%. So, if you have a 20.9% rate, which is the average according to the Fed's data, it might increase to 21.15%.
If you don’t carry a balance from month to month, the APR is less important.
But suppose you have a $4,000 credit balance and your interest rate is 20%. If you made only a fixed payment of $110 per month, it would take you a bit under five years to pay off your credit card debt, and you would pay about $2,200 in interest.
If your APR increased by a percentage point, paying off your balance would take two months longer and cost an additional $215.
WHAT IF I HAVE MONEY TO SAVE?
After years of paying low rates for savers, some banks are finally offering better interest on deposits. Though the increases may seem small, compounding interest adds up over the years.
Interest on savings accounts doesn't always track what the Fed does. But as rates have continued to rise, some banks have improved their terms for savers as well. Even if you’re only keeping modest savings in your bank account, you could make more significant gains over the long term by finding an account with a better rate.
While the biggest national banks have yet to dramatically change the rates on their savings accounts (clocking in at an average of just 0.23%, according to Bankrate), some mid-size and smaller banks have made changes more in line with the Fed’s moves.
Online banks in particular — which save money by not having brick-and-mortar branches and associated expenses — are now offering savings accounts with annual percentage yields of between 3% and 4%, or even higher, as well as 4% or higher on one-year Certificates of Deposit (CDs). Some promotional rates can reach as high as 5%.
WILL THIS AFFECT HOME OWNERSHIP?
Last week, mortgage buyer Freddie Mac reported that the average rate on the benchmark 30-year mortgage edged up to 6.43% from 6.39% the week prior. A year ago, the average rate was lower: 5.10%. Higher rates can add hundreds of dollars a month to mortgage payments.
Rates for 30-year mortgages usually track the moves in the 10-year Treasury yield. Rates can also be influenced by investors’ expectations for future inflation, global demand for U.S. Treasuries and what the Fed does.
Most mortgages last for decades, so if you already have a mortgage, you won't be impacted. But if you're looking to buy and already paying more for food, gas and other necessities, a higher mortgage rate could put home ownership out of reach.
WHAT IF I WANT TO BUY A CAR?
With shortages of computer chips and other parts easing, automakers are producing more vehicles. Many are even reducing prices or offering limited discounts. But rising loan rates and lower used-vehicle trade-in values have erased much of the savings on monthly payments.
Since the Fed began raising rates in March 2022, the average new-vehicle loan rate has jumped from 4.5% to 7%, according to Edmunds data. Used vehicle loans dropped slightly to 11.1%. Loan durations average around 70 months — nearly six years — for new and used vehicles.
Largely because of rate increases, the average monthly payment for both new and used vehicles has risen since March 2022, Edmunds says. The average new vehicle payment is up $72 to $729, Edmunds says. For used vehicles, the payment rose $20 a month to $546.
The higher rates will keep out of the market people who have the ability to wait for more favorable terms, said Joseph Yoon, Edmunds’ consumer insights analyst.
“But with inventory levels improving, it’s a matter of time before discounts and incentives start coming back into the equation," attracting more buyers, Yoon said.
New vehicle average prices are down from the end of last year to $47,749. But they're still high compared with even a year ago. The average used vehicle price dropped 7% from last May's peak, to $28,729, but prices are edging back up.
Financing a new vehicle now costs $8,655 in interest. Analysts say that's enough to chase many out of the auto market.
Any Fed rate increase is typically passed through to auto borrowers, though it will be offset a bit by subsidized rates from manufacturers.
WHAT ABOUT MY JOB?
The nation’s employers kept hiring in March, adding a healthy 236,000 jobs. The unemployment rate fell to 3.5%, just above the 53-year low of 3.4% set in January. At the same time, the report from the Labor Department suggested a slowdown, with pay growth also easing.
Some economists argue that layoffs could help slow rising prices, and that a tight labor market fuels wage growth and higher inflation.
Economists expect the unemployment rate to go up to 3.6% in April, a slight increase from January's half-century low of 3.4%.
WILL THIS AFFECT STUDENT LOANS?
Borrowers who take out new private student loans should prepare to pay more as as rates increase. The current range for federal loans is between about 5% and 7.5%.
That said, payments on federal student loans are suspended with zero interest until summer 2023 as part of an emergency measure put in place early in the pandemic. President Joe Biden has also announced some loan forgiveness, of up to $10,000 for most borrowers, and up to $20,000 for Pell Grant recipients — a policy that’s now being challenged in the courts.
___
AP Business Writers Christopher Rugaber in Washington, Tom Krisher in Detroit and Damian Troise and Ken Sweet in New York contributed to this report.
___
The Associated Press receives support from Charles Schwab Foundation for educational and explanatory reporting to improve financial literacy. The independent foundation is separate from Charles Schwab and Co. Inc. The AP is solely responsible for its journalism.


It would boost the nation’s key interest rate to its highest level in 16 years, making future rate decisions more difficult and treacherous.
Poised to raise interest rates Wednesday for a 10th time, Federal Reserve officials are facing two competing economic trends that could make their future rate decisions more difficult and treacherous.
On the one hand, turmoil in the banking sector and political battles over the government’s borrowing limit could weaken the economy if banks restrict lending and financial markets tumble on fears of a default on the nation’s debt. Such anxieties would argue against further rate hikes, at least for now.
On the other hand, inflation, while slowing, is persisting at a level far above the central bank’s 2% target rate, raising concerns that the Fed might have to further tighten credit to slow price increases. Additional rate hikes would follow — a trend that would lead to ever-higher borrowing rates and heighten the risk of a recession.
Business Briefing Become a business insider with the latest news. Email Address By signing up you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy SUBMIT
The wide range of potential outcomes could provoke divisions among Fed officials, even as they’re expected on Wednesday to raise their benchmark rate to 5.1%, the highest level in 16 years. The big question is whether the Fed will also signal Wednesday that it’s now inclined to pause its rate increases — barring any re-acceleration of inflation — and keep its key rate unchanged for the rest of 2023 as it assesses its progress in cooling inflation.
“There clearly is some division (among Fed officials), which is reasonable, given that we don’t know where we are, and we’ve got these things going in the wrong direction,” said Diane Swonk, chief economist at KMPG.
Austan Goolsbee, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, last month cited the banking turmoil and the likelihood that many banks will tighten credit for consumers and businesses as a reason to potentially forgo a rate hike this week.
“I think we need to be cautious,” Goolsbee said. “We should gather further data and be careful about raising rates too aggressively.”
Likewise, Patrick Harker, president of the Philadelphia Fed, warned against overdoing rate hikes and possibly derailing the economy.
Other regional Fed bank presidents, including James Bullard of the St. Louis Fed and Neel Kashkari of the Minneapolis Fed, have said they would prefer that the central bank remain steadfast and lift its key rate to at least 5.4%, which would require additional rate hikes after this week.
That divergence reflects the fraught path confronting the Fed. When inflation was spiking to a peak of 9.1% last June, the Fed was mostly united in its support for fast and aggressive rate increases. Now that its key rate is at a level that should restrict growth and inflation has slowed to 5% as of March, unanimity could be harder to maintain.
The Fed is meeting this week against an increasingly cloudy economic backdrop. Turmoil has re-erupted in the nation’s banking sector after regulators seized and sold off First Republic Bank over the weekend. It was the second-largest U.S. bank failure ever and the third major banking collapse in the past six weeks. Investor anxieties about whether other regional banks may suffer from problems similar to First Republic’s sent stocks sharply lower Tuesday.
Wall Street traders were also unnerved by Monday’s announcement from Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen that the nation could default on its debt as soon as June 1 unless Congress agrees to lift the debt limit before then. The debt limit caps how much the government can borrow, and Republicans in Congress are demanding steep spending cuts as the price of agreeing to lift the borrowing cap.
Both developments could weigh on an already slowing economy. The Fed wants the economy to cool somewhat, because less borrowing and spending should also help rein in inflation. But particularly if political battles around the debt ceiling worsen, the economy could fall into a deep enough recession that the Fed might be forced to cut interest rates sometime this year — even if inflation isn’t fully in check.
Goldman Sachs estimates that a widespread pullback in bank lending could cut U.S. growth by 0.4 percentage point this year. That could be enough to cause a recession. In December, the Fed projected growth of just 0.5% in 2023.
The Fed’s likely rate hike Wednesday comes as other major central banks are also tightening credit. European Central Bank President Christine Lagarde is expected to announce another interest rate increase Thursday, after inflation figures released Tuesday showed that price increases ticked up last month.
Consumer prices rose 7% in the 20 countries that use the euro currency in April from a year earlier, up from a 6.9% year-over-year increase in March.
In the United States, although overall inflation has tumbled as the cost of gas and many goods has eased, “core” inflation — which excludes volatile food and energy costs — has remained chronically high. According to the Fed’s preferred measure, core prices rose 4.6% in March from a year earlier, the same as in December.
Christopher Rugaber, The Associated Press


The Federal Reserve on Wednesday released its decision on interest rates following a two-day meeting.
The Federal Reserve on Wednesday approved its 10th interest rate increase in just a little over a year and dropped a tentative hint that the current tightening cycle is at an end.
In a unanimous decision widely expected by markets, the central bank's Federal Open Market Committee raised its benchmark borrowing rate by 0.25 percentage point. The rate sets what banks charge each other for overnight lending but feeds through to many consumer debt products such as mortgages, auto loans and credit cards.
The increase takes the fed funds rate to a target range of 5%-5.25%, the highest since August 2007.
Markets, though, are more focused on where the Fed will be going from here, particularly amid concerns over economic growth and a lingering bank crisis that has rattled nerves on Wall Street.
The post-meeting statement offered only some clarity, and not by what it said but what it didn't say.
The document omitted a sentence present in the previous statement saying that "the Committee anticipates that some additional policy firming may be appropriate" for the Fed to achieve its 2% inflation goal.
Get Boston local news, weather forecasts, lifestyle and entertainment stories to your inbox. Sign up for NBC Boston’s newsletters.
Also, the statement tweaked language to outline the conditions under which "additional policy firming may be appropriate." Previously, the FOMC had framed the forward guidance around how it would determine "the extent of future increases in the target range."
The statement reiterated that the Fed "will take into account the cumulative tightening of monetary policy, the lags with which monetary policy affects economic activity and inflation, and economic and financial developments."
Taken together, the moves are at least a tenuous nod that while tight policy could remain in effect, the path ahead is less clear for actual interest rate hikes as policymakers assess incoming data and financial conditions.
Wednesday's decision comes amid U.S. economic fragility and over the objections of prominent Democratic lawmakers, who urged the Fed this week to stop rate hikes that they insisted could cause a recession and excessive loss of jobs.
However, the labor market has remained strong since the increases started in March 2022. At the same time, inflation is still well above the 2% target that policymakers consider optimum. Multiple officials have said rates probably will need to stay elevated even if the increases are put on hold.
Along with inflation, the Fed has had to deal with tumult in the banking industry that has seen three mid-size banks shuttered.
Though central bank officials insist the industry as a whole is stable, an expected tightening in credit conditions and heightened regulations ahead are expected to weigh further on economic growth that was just 1.1% annualized in the first quarter.
The post-meeting statement noted that "tighter credit conditions for households and businesses are likely to weigh on economic activity, hiring and inflation." The language was similar to the March statement, which came just after the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank.
The Fed's own economists at the March FOMC meeting warned that a shallow recession is likely due to the banking issues.
The statement from this week's meeting reiterated that economic growth has been "modest" while "job gains have been robust" and inflation is "elevated."
While higher rates have compounded the banking problems, Fed officials insist they are focused squarely on inflation. Recent data points have indicated a softening in price increases, though "sticky" items such as housing costs and medical care have remained higher, while prices that tend to change a lot, such as food and energy, actually have decelerated, according to Atlanta Fed calculations.
Markets are anticipating that slower growth and the possibility of recession will force the Fed to cut rates later this year.
Manufacturing has been in contraction for the past six months, according to an Institute for Supply Management gauge. However, the services sector, which entails a broader slice of the $26.5 trillion U.S. economy and has been pointing to expansion.
The labor market also has remained resilient. Payroll processing firm ADP reported Wednesday that hiring by private sector companies increased by 296,000 in April, well ahead of economists' expectation. That served as a potential signal that for all the Fed's efforts to cool the jobs picture and correct a supply-demand imbalance, issues remain.


U.S. private employers boosted hiring in April amid strong demand for workers in the leisure and hospitality industry, but a slowdown in wage growth offered some good news for the Federal Reserve's fight against inflation. Private payrolls increased by 296,000 jobs last month, the ADP National Employment Report showed on Wednesday.
U.S. private employers boosted hiring in April amid strong demand for workers in the leisure and hospitality industry, but a slowdown in wage growth offered some good news for the Federal Reserve's fight against inflation.
Private payrolls increased by 296,000 jobs last month, the ADP National Employment Report showed on Wednesday. Data for March was revised lower to show 142,000 jobs added instead of the previously reported 145,000. Economists polled by Reuters had forecast private employment would increase 148,000. The goods producing industry added 67,000 jobs, mostly in natural resources, mining and construction. Manufacturing shed 38,000 positions.
Payrolls in the service-providing sector increased by 229,000 jobs, driven by a rise of 154,000 in the leisure and hospitality industry. Education and health services added 69,000 positions. But financial activities lost 28,000 jobs, while professional and business services payrolls fell 16,000. "We expect payrolls to remain positive for now," said Rubeela Farooqi, chief U.S. economist at High Frequency Economics in White Plains, New York. "But the pace should moderate as the lagged and cumulative effects of monetary policy spread more broadly through the economy."
Wage growth moderated, with the median annual change for job changers dropping to 13.2%, the slowest pace since November 2021, from 14.2% in March. The Fed is expected to raise its benchmark overnight interest rate by another 25 basis points to the 5.00%-5.25% range at the end of a two-day policy meeting on Wednesday before potentially pausing the U.S. central bank's fastest monetary policy tightening campaign since the 1980s.
Higher interest rates are cooling demand for workers and hiring could be eroded by a tightening in bank lending following recent financial market turmoil. A standoff to raise the federal government's $31.4 trillion borrowing cap also poses a grave risk to the economy and ultimately the labor market. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen warned on Monday that the government could run out of money within a month.
TIGHT LABOR MARKET The government reported on Tuesday that there were 9.6 million job openings at the end of March, the lowest since May 2021. Nevertheless, the labor market remains tight, with 1.6 job openings for every unemployed worker in March, well above the 1.0-1.2 range that economists say is consistent with a jobs market that is not generating too much inflation.
The ADP report, jointly developed with the Stanford Digital Economy Lab, was published ahead of the Labor Department's Bureau of Labor Statistics' more comprehensive and closely watched employment report for April on Friday. It has not been a reliable gauge in forecasting private payrolls in the BLS employment report.
According to a Reuters survey of economists, private payrolls likely increased by 160,000 jobs last month. With gains anticipated in government employment, total nonfarm payrolls are forecast to have risen by 179,000 jobs last month after a gain of 236,000 in March.
"Given the ADP's poor record as a predictor of nonfarm payrolls, we still think that, based on the upward trend in initial jobless claims and the downward trend in job openings, the latter increased by a more modest 180,000 last month," said Paul Ashworth, chief North America economist at Capital Economics in Toronto.
(This story has not been edited by Devdiscourse staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)


The Federal Reserve is widely expected to raise interest rates by another 25 basis points, while a slate of Club holdings report quarterly results.
My top 10 things to watch Wednesday, May 3 1. The Federal Reserve is widely expected to raise interest rates by another 25 basis points Wednesday following a two-day meeting. But will it pause rate hikes going forward? 2. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude oil is trading below $70 a barrel, with oil shorts pressing the bet it will go to BP 's disastrous $60 target. WTI was $105 a barrel at this time last year, and was up at $87 just a few weeks ago. 3. Club holding Starbucks (SBUX) delivered impressive fiscal second-quarter results Tuesday, though investors seem focused on the coffee maker's decision not to raise its guidance. Wall Street analysts had a mixed reaction. JPMorgan lowered its price target on SBUX to $113 a share, from $114, while Barclays raised its target to $127 a share, from $123. 4. Club holding Advanced Micro Devices (AMD) provided an outlook below market expectations, even as it delivered an earnings beat Tuesday. We'll be looking to buy up more shares on the probable dip. 5. Ford Motor (F), another Club holding, showed us it righted the ship in the first quarter, with progress on the electric-vehicle front being aggressive and even. The stock, at around $12 a share, is also incredibly cheap. 6. Barclays lowered its price target on Pfizer (PFE) to $40 a share, from $43, while maintaining an equal weight rating on the stock. The bank sees a "challenging setup" for the pharmaceuticals firm in the summer months. 7. Club holding Eli Lilly 's (LLY) donanemab drug slowed cognitive decline in Alzheimer's patients by 35% in a late-stage trial, the company said Wednesday. The news sent LLY shares up more than 5% in premarket trading. 8. Uber Technologies (UBER) received a slate of price-target increases Wednesday, including from Morgan Stanley. The bank raised its target to $57 a share, from $54, while maintaining an overweight rating on the stock. 9. Club name Emerson Electric (EMR) delivered better-than-expected quarterly results Wednesday, while raising its full-year guidance for fiscal 2023. 10. Club holding Estee Lauder (EL) on Wednesday lowered its outlook for fiscal year 2023, citing headwinds from travel retail in Asia. "As the shape of recovery from the pandemic for Asia travel retail comes into better focus, it is proving to be both far more volatile than we expected and more gradual relative to what we experienced in other regions," CEO Fabrizio Freda said. (See here for a full list of the stocks in Jim Cramer's Charitable Trust.) As a subscriber to the CNBC Investing Club with Jim Cramer, you will receive a trade alert before Jim makes a trade. Jim waits 45 minutes after sending a trade alert before buying or selling a stock in his charitable trust's portfolio. If Jim has talked about a stock on CNBC TV, he waits 72 hours after issuing the trade alert before executing the trade. THE ABOVE INVESTING CLUB INFORMATION IS SUBJECT TO OUR TERMS AND CONDITIONS AND PRIVACY POLICY , TOGETHER WITH OUR DISCLAIMER . NO FIDUCIARY OBLIGATION OR DUTY EXISTS, OR IS CREATED, BY VIRTUE OF YOUR RECEIPT OF ANY INFORMATION PROVIDED IN CONNECTION WITH THE INVESTING CLUB. NO SPECIFIC OUTCOME OR PROFIT IS GUARANTEED.
My top 10 things to watch Wednesday, May 3


Poised to raise interest rates Wednesday for a 10th time, Federal Reserve officials are...
WASHINGTON (AP) — Poised to raise interest rates Wednesday for a 10th time, Federal Reserve officials are facing two competing economic trends that could make their future rate decisions more difficult and treacherous.
On the one hand, turmoil in the banking sector and political battles over the government's borrowing limit could weaken the economy if banks restrict lending and financial markets tumble on fears of a default on the nation's debt. Such anxieties would argue against further rate hikes, at least for now.
On the other hand, inflation, while slowing, is persisting at a level far above the central bank’s 2% target rate, raising concerns that the Fed might have to further tighten credit to slow price increases. Additional rate hikes would follow — a trend that would lead to ever-higher borrowing rates and heighten the risk of a recession.
The wide range of potential outcomes could provoke divisions among Fed officials, even as they're expected on Wednesday to raise their benchmark rate to 5.1%, the highest level in 16 years. The big question is whether the Fed will also signal Wednesday that it's now inclined to pause its rate increases — barring any re-acceleration of inflation — and keep its key rate unchanged for the rest of 2023 as it assesses its progress in cooling inflation.
“There clearly is some division (among Fed officials), which is reasonable, given that we don’t know where we are, and we’ve got these things going in the wrong direction,” said Diane Swonk, chief economist at KMPG.
Austan Goolsbee, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, last month cited the banking turmoil and the likelihood that many banks will tighten credit for consumers and businesses as a reason to potentially forgo a rate hike this week.
“I think we need to be cautious,” Goolsbee said. “We should gather further data and be careful about raising rates too aggressively.”
Likewise, Patrick Harker, president of the Philadelphia Fed, warned against overdoing rate hikes and possibly derailing the economy.
Other regional Fed bank presidents, including James Bullard of the St. Louis Fed and Neel Kashkari of the Minneapolis Fed, have said they would prefer that the central bank remain steadfast and lift its key rate to at least 5.4%, which would require additional rate hikes after this week.
That divergence reflects the fraught path confronting the Fed. When inflation was spiking to a peak of 9.1% last June, the Fed was mostly united in its support for fast and aggressive rate increases. Now that its key rate is at a level that should restrict growth and inflation has slowed to 5% as of March, unanimity could be harder to maintain.
The Fed is meeting this week against an increasingly cloudy economic backdrop. Turmoil has re-erupted in the nation's banking sector after regulators seized and sold off First Republic Bank over the weekend. It was the second-largest U.S. bank failure ever and the third major banking collapse in the past six weeks. Investor anxieties about whether other regional banks may suffer from problems similar to First Republic's sent stocks sharply lower Tuesday.
Wall Street traders were also unnerved by Monday's announcement from Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen that the nation could default on its debt as soon as June 1 unless Congress agrees to lift the debt limit before then. The debt limit caps how much the government can borrow, and Republicans in Congress are demanding steep spending cuts as the price of agreeing to lift the borrowing cap.
Both developments could weigh on an already slowing economy. The Fed wants the economy to cool somewhat, because less borrowing and spending should also help rein in inflation. But particularly if political battles around the debt ceiling worsen, the economy could fall into a deep enough recession that the Fed might be forced to cut interest rates sometime this year — even if inflation isn't fully in check.
Goldman Sachs estimates that a widespread pullback in bank lending could cut U.S. growth by 0.4 percentage point this year. That could be enough to cause a recession. In December, the Fed projected growth of just 0.5% in 2023.
The Fed's likely rate hike Wednesday comes as other major central banks are also tightening credit. European Central Bank President Christine Lagarde is expected to announce another interest rate increase Thursday, after inflation figures released Tuesday showed that price increases ticked up last month.
Consumer prices rose 7% in the 20 countries that use the euro currency in April from a year earlier, up from a 6.9% year-over-year increase in March.
In the United States, although overall inflation has tumbled as the cost of gas and many goods has eased, “core” inflation — which excludes volatile food and energy costs — has remained chronically high. According to the Fed's preferred measure, core prices rose 4.6% in March from a year earlier, the same as in December.


WASHINGTON (AP) — Poised to raise interest rates Wednesday for a 10th time, Federal Reserve officials are facing two competing economic trends that could make their future rate decisions more difficult and treacherous. On the one hand, turmoil in the banking sector and political battles over the government’s borrowing limit could weaken the economy if…
WASHINGTON (AP) — Poised to raise interest rates Wednesday for a 10th time, Federal Reserve officials are facing two competing economic trends that could make their future rate decisions more difficult and treacherous.
On the one hand, turmoil in the banking sector and political battles over the government’s borrowing limit could weaken the economy if banks restrict lending and financial markets tumble on fears of a default on the nation’s debt. Such anxieties would argue against further rate hikes, at least for now.
On the other hand, inflation, while slowing, is persisting at a level far above the central bank’s 2% target rate, raising concerns that the Fed might have to further tighten credit to slow price increases. Additional rate hikes would follow — a trend that would lead to ever-higher borrowing rates and heighten the risk of a recession.
The wide range of potential outcomes could provoke divisions among Fed officials, even as they’re expected on Wednesday to raise their benchmark rate to 5.1%, the highest level in 16 years. The big question is whether the Fed will also signal Wednesday that it’s now inclined to pause its rate increases — barring any re-acceleration of inflation — and keep its key rate unchanged for the rest of 2023 as it assesses its progress in cooling inflation.
“There clearly is some division (among Fed officials), which is reasonable, given that we don’t know where we are, and we’ve got these things going in the wrong direction,” said Diane Swonk, chief economist at KMPG.
Austan Goolsbee, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, last month cited the banking turmoil and the likelihood that many banks will tighten credit for consumers and businesses as a reason to potentially forgo a rate hike this week.
“I think we need to be cautious,” Goolsbee said. “We should gather further data and be careful about raising rates too aggressively.”
Likewise, Patrick Harker, president of the Philadelphia Fed, warned against overdoing rate hikes and possibly derailing the economy.
Other regional Fed bank presidents, including James Bullard of the St. Louis Fed and Neel Kashkari of the Minneapolis Fed, have said they would prefer that the central bank remain steadfast and lift its key rate to at least 5.4%, which would require additional rate hikes after this week.
That divergence reflects the fraught path confronting the Fed. When inflation was spiking to a peak of 9.1% last June, the Fed was mostly united in its support for fast and aggressive rate increases. Now that its key rate is at a level that should restrict growth and inflation has slowed to 5% as of March, unanimity could be harder to maintain.
The Fed is meeting this week against an increasingly cloudy economic backdrop. Turmoil has re-erupted in the nation’s banking sector after regulators seized and sold off First Republic Bank over the weekend. It was the second-largest U.S. bank failure ever and the third major banking collapse in the past six weeks. Investor anxieties about whether other regional banks may suffer from problems similar to First Republic’s sent stocks sharply lower Tuesday.
Wall Street traders were also unnerved by Monday’s announcement from Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen that the nation could default on its debt as soon as June 1 unless Congress agrees to lift the debt limit before then. The debt limit caps how much the government can borrow, and Republicans in Congress are demanding steep spending cuts as the price of agreeing to lift the borrowing cap.
Both developments could weigh on an already slowing economy. The Fed wants the economy to cool somewhat, because less borrowing and spending should also help rein in inflation. But particularly if political battles around the debt ceiling worsen, the economy could fall into a deep enough recession that the Fed might be forced to cut interest rates sometime this year — even if inflation isn’t fully in check.
Goldman Sachs estimates that a widespread pullback in bank lending could cut U.S. growth by 0.4 percentage point this year. That could be enough to cause a recession. In December, the Fed projected growth of just 0.5% in 2023.
The Fed’s likely rate hike Wednesday comes as other major central banks are also tightening credit. European Central Bank President Christine Lagarde is expected to announce another interest rate increase Thursday, after inflation figures released Tuesday showed that price increases ticked up last month.
Consumer prices rose 7% in the 20 countries that use the euro currency in April from a year earlier, up from a 6.9% year-over-year increase in March.
In the United States, although overall inflation has tumbled as the cost of gas and many goods has eased, “core” inflation — which excludes volatile food and energy costs — has remained chronically high. According to the Fed’s preferred measure, core prices rose 4.6% in March from a year earlier, the same as in December.


Dow Jones futures rose Wednesday ahead of the Federal Reserve rate decision and Fed Chair Powell's comments. AMD dived on earnings.
Dow Jones futures rose modestly Wednesday morning ahead of a highly anticipated Federal Reserve decision on interest rate hikes and Fed Chair Jerome Powell's comments. Meanwhile, leading chipmaker Advanced Micro Devices (AMD) dived after issuing weak sales guidance.
X
The Fed's two-day policy meeting wraps up with an interest rate decision Wednesday afternoon at 2 p.m. ET. Fed chief Powell will speak at 2:30 p.m. As of Wednesday morning, investor expectations for a quarter-point hike stood at 88%, according to the CME FedWatch Tool.
Markets may celebrate — at least briefly — if the ongoing banking crisis and indications of a softening economy and job market lead the Fed to forgo a rate hike. A hike and announcement of a pause on further hikes also could generate a relief rally. On the other hand, hiking and keeping an additional June increase on the table would likely not go down well with Wall Street.
On the economic front this morning, ADP's National Employment Report showed payroll growth of 296,000 in April, far above the expected 143,000 figure and up sharply from March's 145,000 figure.
Further, S&P Global's U.S. Services Purchasing Managers' Index for April is due out at 9:45 a.m. with expectations for a 53.7 reading. Finally, the Institute for Supply Management's April services index is expected to improve slightly to 51.7 vs. last month's 51.2 reading.
Earnings Movers: AMD, Starbucks
Key earnings movers Wednesday morning include Advanced Micro Devices, Ford Motor (F), Starbucks (SBUX) and Super Micro Computer (SMCI).
AMD stock plunged more than 7% in early trade after the chipmaker beat expectations for the first quarter but came up short on its sales forecast for the second quarter.
Ford Motors maintained its 2023 outlook after crushing first-quarter earnings estimates late Tuesday. F stock fell 1.2% early Wednesday.
Starbucks stock tumbled more than 5% early Wednesday, even as analysts raised price targets following a stronger-than-expected report for the company's fiscal second quarter delivered late Tuesday.
Super Micro missed Wall Street's lowered targets for its fiscal third quarter but guided much higher than views for the current period. SMCI stock surged nearly 9% in premarket trading.
Stock Market Today
Electric-vehicle giant Tesla traded a fraction higher Wednesday morning. Dow Jones tech giants Apple (AAPL) and Microsoft (MSFT) were modestly higher ahead of today's stock market open.
IBD SwingTrader stock Lam Research (LRCX), IBD Leaderboard stock Las Vegas Sands (LVS), Nvidia (NVDA) and Paccar (PCAR) — as well as Dow Jones stocks JPMorgan Chase (JPM), Nike (NKE) and Visa (V) — are among the top stocks to watch in the struggling stock market uptrend.
JPMorgan was featured in this week's Stocks Near A Buy Zone column. InMode and Nvidia were recent IBD Stock Of The Day topics. Paccar received an IBD Stock Analysis close-up on Thursday.
IBD's latest newsletter MarketDiem gives you actionable ideas for stocks, options and crypto right in your inbox
Dow Jones Today: Oil Prices, Treasury Yields
Ahead of Wednesday's opening bell, Dow Jones futures rose a fraction vs. fair value, held back by Chevron (CVX), which leaned more than 1% lower. S&P 500 futures moved up 0.2%. The tech-heavy Nasdaq 100 futures rose 0.3% in morning action.
Among U.S. exchange-traded funds, the Nasdaq 100 tracker Invesco QQQ Trust (QQQ) gained 0.3%, while the SPDR S&P 500 ETF (SPY) traded up 0.25% early Wednesday.
The 10-year U.S. Treasury yield on Wednesday traded down to 3.40%, threatening to extend Tuesday's sharp losses. It remains solidly off its early-April lows.
U.S. oil prices continued to unravel, dragging to their lowest levels since March. West Texas Intermediate futures slumped nearly 3%, to below $70 a barrel — and down more than 9% for the week, ahead of the Energy Information Administration's weekly inventory report.
Stock Market Rally Struggles
On Tuesday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 1.1%, with Chevron one of the big losers. CVX stock tumbled 4.3% to break down below its 50-day line. The S&P 500 sold off 1.2%, while the tech-heavy Nasdaq composite lost 1.1%.
Tuesday's Big Picture column commented, "Stock market indexes spent most of April in the doldrums, rarely gaining or losing more than 1% on any given day. But that's changed in the past week. The Nasdaq has moved 0.4% to 2% in five of the past six sessions. The S&P has moved more than 0.8% in five of the past six sessions."
Now is an important time to read IBD's The Big Picture column with the stock market still struggling to maintain its uptrend.
Five Best Dow Jones Stocks To Buy And Watch Now
Dow Jones Stocks To Buy And Watch: JPMorgan, Nike, Visa
JPMorgan shares closed further below a cup-with-handle's 141.88 buy point, with a 1.6% drop Tuesday, according to IBD MarketSmith pattern recognition. JPM stock was up 0.2% Wednesday morning.
Nike shares fell 0.5% Tuesday, finishing just below a cup-with-handle's 127.59 buy point. NKE stock dropped 0.8% early Wednesday.
Visa shares gave up a 230.15 cup-with-handle buy point during Tuesday's 2.4% decline. If the stock retakes the entry, the buy range will go up to 241.66. V stock was up slightly Wednesday.
4 Top Growth Stocks To Watch In The Stock Market Rally
Best Stocks To Buy And Watch: Nvidia, Paccar
Nvidia shares finished Tuesday just above a 280.10 buy point in a short consolidation after the session's 2.4% drop, according to IBD MarketSmith. NVDA stock was down 0.6% Wednesday morning.
Backstory: On Monday, Rosenblatt Securities analyst Hans Mosesmann named Nvidia as one of seven semiconductor stocks likely to benefit from the surge in spending by tech companies around artificial intelligence. Nvidia sells graphics processing units, accelerators, software tools and other offerings for AI projects.
Paccar snapped a three-day win streak Tuesday, skidding 3.2%. Shares finished right at their 50-day line. The stock is approaching a flat base's 76.82 buy point, with an early entry at 75.83 also in play. Paccar shares rose 0.6% Wednesday morning.
Backstory: The producer of heavy-duty semi-trucks topped first-quarter estimates on April 25, reporting a 96% earnings spike. At CES 2022, Paccar exhibited connected and autonomous trucks. The company behind the Kenworth, Peterbilt and DAF nameplates showcased three vehicles.
Lam Research, Las Vegas Sands
IBD SwingTrader stock Lam Research is moving closer to an early entry at 533.19, while forming a flat base with a 548.95 buy point. LRCX stock was up 0.4% Wednesday morning.
Backstory: Lam Research supplies wafer fabrication equipment to the semiconductor industry. It is one of just three companies involved in etching and deposition for chip production. Lam also makes equipment used in NAND flash memory modules. These account for roughly half of total sales.
IBD Leaderboard stock Las Vegas Sands remains just out of the 5% buy range above a 60.40 buy point in a cup with handle, as LVS stock dropped 1.9% Tuesday. The buy zone topped out at 63.42. Shares dipped 0.4% Wednesday.
Backstory: In recent weeks, Las Vegas Sands smashed earnings expectations for the first quarter and signaled a "robust recovery" in China's Macau gaming hub. The casino stock posted earnings of 28 cents per share, up from a loss of 40 cents per share a year ago. Revenue vaulted nearly 125% to $2.12 billion. On Monday, Macau officials said April gaming revenue surged 450% year over year to hit a three-year high.
Learn How To Time The Market With IBD's ETF Market Strategy
Best Stocks To Buy And Watch In Stock Market Rally
These are four best stocks to buy and watch in today's stock market, including three Dow Jones leaders.
Company Name Symbol Correct Buy Point Type Of Buy Point Nvidia (NVDA) 280.10 Consolidation Nike (NKE) 127.59 Cup with handle Visa (V) 230.15 Cup with handle JPMorgan (JPM) 141.88 Cup with handle
Source: IBD Data As Of May 1, 2023
Join IBD experts as they analyze leading stocks in the current stock market rally on IBD Live
Tesla Stock
Tesla stock slid another 0.9% Tuesday, holding near its lowest level since Jan. 26. In recent weeks, shares triggered the 7%-8% loss rule from a buy point at 200.76 in a cup with handle. And they are trading sharply below their 50-day line, a key level. The stock closed Monday 50% off its 52-week high.
TSLA stock looked to bounce back from Tuesday's losses, trading up 0.3% early Wednesday.
Dow Jones Leaders: Apple, Microsoft
Among Dow Jones stocks, Apple shares lost 0.6% Tuesday, falling for a second consecutive session. They remain solidly above a 157.48 buy point and out of the buy range that ran up to 165.35. AAPL stock rose 0.4% premarket. Apple reports its fiscal second-quarter results on Thursday.
Microsoft shares are sharply above a flat base's 276.86 buy point despite a 0.1% drop Tuesday. The 5% buy area went up from the buy point to 290.70. MSFT stock hit a 52-week high last week. On Wednesday morning, MSFT stock gained 0.6%.
Be sure to follow Scott Lehtonen on Twitter at @IBD_SLehtonen for more on growth stocks and the Dow Jones Industrial Average.
YOU MAY ALSO LIKE:
Top Growth Stocks To Buy And Watch
Learn How To Time The Market With IBD's ETF Market Strategy
Find The Best Long-Term Investments With IBD Long-Term Leaders
MarketSmith: Research, Charts, Data And Coaching All In One Place
How To Research Growth Stocks: Why This IBD Tool Simplifies The Search For Top Stocks


The Federal Reserve is widely expected to raise its benchmark interest rate again on Wednesday, lifting it above 5% for the first time since 2006 as it works to bring down stubborn inflation.
A version of this story first appeared in CNN Business’ Before the Bell newsletter. Not a subscriber? You can sign up right here. You can listen to an audio version of the newsletter by clicking the same link.
London CNN —
The Federal Reserve is widely expected to raise its benchmark interest rate again on Wednesday, lifting it above 5% for the first time since 2006 as it works to bring down stubborn inflation.
But doing so risks sending shockwaves through the economy and markets, fanning recession fears and concerns about financial stability amid an ongoing crisis in the banking sector.
“Financial stability is subordinate to the effort to restore price stability” at the moment, Joseph Brusuelas, chief economist at RSM US, told CNN.
Step back: The Fed has swiftly raised interest rates in a bid to tame inflation, which fell to an annual rate of 5% in March but remains way above its target. Investors expect the central bank will announce another quarter-point increase today before signaling a pause.
That would allow policymakers to assess the consequences of the rate hikes enacted to date, which take time to feed through financial markets and the economy.
The consequences of higher borrowing costs have started to show. The unemployment rate stood at 3.5% in the United States in March. However, job openings that month tumbled to their lowest level since May 2021, according to data released Tuesday. Layoffs jumped by nearly 250,000 to 1.8 million — the highest level since December 2020.
So far, companies have maintained a robust pace of hiring, helping absorb laid-off workers, according to Diane Swonk, chief economist at KPMG. Yet that will change as companies find it harder to access credit, pushing firms to trim investment and costs.
The Fed has predicted the unemployment rate will rise to 4.5% this year and 4.6% next year. That level of joblessness would imply the economy is in recession, Swonk said.
“It’s stunning to me that the US economy has been as resilient as it has been,” she said. “We also know policy works with a lag, and the worst is yet to come.”
Meanwhile, investors are still coming to terms with the rapid run-up in rates, which sparked a huge sell-off in US government bonds and stocks last year.
Banks that failed to adequately prepare have been hammered. The shifting landscape paved the way for the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank in March and First Republic Bank this week.
More pain could be on the way. The commercial real estate sector, which is very sensitive to high interest rates, looks particularly vulnerable — its problems made worse by a glut of empty office buildings in the wake of the pandemic.
The Fed knows it’s pushing rates to an uncomfortable level. In many ways, that’s the point. The central bank wants to dampen Wall Street’s animal spirits and crimp demand for goods and services so inflation returns to a more manageable level and stays there.
But Sheila Bair, the former head of the US Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, told CNN this week she’s worried about this aggressive strategy, which could pile undue stress on the banking system and the economy. She’s argued for months the Fed needs to take a time-out.
“Hitting pause doesn’t mean you’re giving up the fight,” said Bair, who led the FDIC through the Great Recession. “It just means you’re taking a breather and assessing what you’ve accomplished so far.”
JPMorgan’s size swells as bank crisis rumbles on
JPMorgan Chase (JPM) has once again come to the rescue of the banking system by acquiring a doomed bank. That makes Elizabeth Warren very worried.
By blessing JPMorgan’s takeover of First Republic Bank, the Democratic US senator fears federal regulators just made the “too big to fail” problem even worse.
“What happened here is because a bank was under-regulated and started to fail, the federal government has helped JPMorgan Chase get even bigger,” Warren told CNN on Tuesday in her first on-camera interview about the First Republic failure.
The backstory: JPMorgan agreed to pay the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation $10.6 billion to buy most of First Republic after regulators shut the large regional bank. To the relief of investors and bank customers, the JPMorgan deal protects all of First Republic’s depositors.
“It may look good today while everything’s flying high, but ultimately if one of those giant banks, JPMorgan Chase, starts to stumble, the American taxpayers are the ones who will be on the line,” Warren said.
Warren thinks a different bank should have been allowed to buy First Republic.
“There were multiple bidders here and every other bidder was a lot smaller than JPMorgan Chase. My view on this is it’s important to look at the effect on competition and to try to keep a more diversified banking system,” Warren said. “Let somebody else buy this bank. Let somebody else take over those assets.”
Not over yet: Federal regulators had hoped that brokering the sale of First Republic would contain the banking crisis. That may have been wishful thinking. Shares of PacWest Bancor (PACW)p, which is based in California, plunged 28% on Tuesday, while Arizona’s Western Alliance (WAL) dropped 15%.
Uber is riding high as Lyft struggles
Which fast-growing tech companies are running into trouble as the economy slows and borrowing costs rise?
Not Uber, which on Tuesday reported first quarter earnings that beat Wall Street’s expectations and sent its shares soaring 12%. Its stock has climbed 48% year-to-date, versus the S&P 500’s 7% rise.
Details, details: The company brought in $8.8 billion in revenue in the first three months of the year, up 29% from the same period in 2022. That heartened investors, who cheered the signal that consumers are still spending on ride-sharing and food delivery.
“Uber is off to a strong start in 2023,” CEO Dara Khosrowshahi said. Even with higher interest rates and tighter access to funding, the company is “well positioned” to improve its competitiveness in key markets, he added.
Winning the rivalry: Lyft has not fared as well. Last month, it announced it would cut 26% of its workforce as it tries to control costs. The company recently replaced its CEO and said its founders would exit their management positions. (Lyft reports results on Thursday.)
The decision to invest in food and grocery delivery during the pandemic has become a big advantage for Uber. That business is still growing. Uber is also building it out as an advertising platform.


Many consumers would agree that between inflation and tighter credit conditions, this is the worst they’ve felt about their finances since the pandemic swooped in.
High prices. High interest rates. Slowing growth.
It would all seem to spell an economic downturn.
Indeed, many consumers would agree that between inflation and tighter credit conditions — and with no more pandemic financial assistance in sight — this is the worst they’ve felt about their finances since the Covid pandemic broke out and upended everything.
Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell testifies before the Senate Banking Committee on March 7. Win McNamee / Getty Images
Yet, as the Federal Reserve gets ready to make its latest announcement Wednesday afternoon about whether it will raise its key federal funds rate for the 10th consecutive time, financial commentators continue to disagree about how it should respond to economic conditions.
According to data from the CME Group, Wall Street traders are betting that the Fed will announce another 0.25% rate hike Wednesday — but that it will be forced to cut rates at least twice before the end of the year as economic growth slows to a crawl.
Others disagree about how exactly this all plays out. In an emailed statement, Seema Shah, the chief global strategist at Principal Asset Management, said that with inflation still elevated and sticky and with the broad economic picture still looking "fairly robust," the Fed is actually more likely than not to keep additional rate hikes on the table.
"Provided the economic data slows only gently and inflation remains elevated, and the banking sector volatility is fairly contained, we think a June hike is still possible," she wrote. "Indeed, we believe there is a higher risk of a rate hike in June than what the market is currently pricing in."
That is largely the view of economists at Citi, as well. In a note to clients published Sunday, the group said it expects the Fed to strike a “hawkish” tone in its latest language announcing the expected rate hike — meaning it will indicate inflation has not yet been tamed and, therefore, interest rates must remain elevated for longer.
The Citi analysts cite recent price-level data that has continued to come in higher than expected. The graphic below from the Atlanta Federal Reserve illustrates this:
"Rather than signaling a pause, the committee will want to preserve the option for further rate hikes," the Citi economists write. "In our base case the Fed will raise rates by 25bp [0.25%] this week and again in June and July."
The forecasts are being countered elsewhere. Heading into Wednesday, the chorus of voices calling for the Fed to pause kept growing. On Tuesday, Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., and Rep. Pramila Jayapal, D-Wash., called on Fed Chair Jerome Powell to halt rate hikes entirely, warning that too many increases would cost a growing cohort of people their jobs.
"We believe that continuing to raise interest rates would be an abandonment of the Fed’s dual mandate to achieve both maximum employment and price stability and show little regard for the small businesses and working families that will get caught in the wreckage,” they wrote.
Analysts at Nomura global financial services group offered something of a middle ground: While they forecast the Fed will raise the rate by the expected 0.25%, it will prove a “dovish hike” as the central bankers replace previous language that signaled additional hikes will be necessary, planning to take a more wait-and-see approach.
Perhaps the best summation of the economic crosswinds facing the Fed was found in an anonymous response to the monthly report from the Institute for Supply Management, which showed a modest increase in sentiment among producers for April.
"We seem to be in a season of contradictions," said the respondent, identified only as an executive at a metals manufacturing firm. "Business is slowing, but in some ways, it isn’t. Prices for some commodities are stabilizing, but not for others. Some product shortages are over, others aren’t. Trucking is more plentiful, except when it isn’t. There’s uncertainty one day, but not the next. The next couple of months should provide answers — or not. It’s hard to make projections at the moment.”
For Shah, that signals the worst outcome of all.
"The most dangerous risk for financial markets currently is stagflation — the risk of the Fed failing to deliver sufficient tightening, permitting a resurgence in inflation later on in the year," she wrote.


All eyes on Wall Street were on the Federal Reserve's move.
U.S. stock futures edged upward ahead of the open on Wednesday as Wall Street prepares for the Fed’s announcement of another increase in interest rates.
Futures on the S&P 500 (^GSPC) added by 0.22%, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average (^DJI) gained 0.12%. The technology-heavy Nasdaq Composite (^IXIC) edged up 0.26%.
Federal Reserve officials kicked off a two-day policy meeting on Tuesday morning that could end with another quarter-point interest rate hike. The bigger question looming is what officials may signal about another potential tightening at their June meeting.
On Wednesday morning, government bonds were lower. The yield on the 10-year note ticked down to 3.4%, compared to the two-year note yields dipped to 3.9%. Oil prices fell — futures for West Texas Intermediate, the U.S. benchmark, dropped nearly 3% to $69.59 a barrel — below $70 for the first time since March.
Some market participants have anticipated Wednesday’s expected rate hike could be the last of the cycle. That would bring the federal funds rate target range to 5.0%-5.25%, marking the first time it topped the 5% mark since the lead-up to the global financial crisis. But Chairman Jerome Powell could confirm or steer away from those assumptions.
The Fed will announce its latest policy decision Wednesday at 2 p.m. ET. Powell is set to hold a press conference at 2:30 p.m. ET.
WASHINGTON, DC - APRIL 21: Federal Reserve Board Chairman Jerome Powell listens during an open session of a Financial Stability Oversight Council meeting at the Department of the Treasury. (Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images)
Inflation remains sticky, the labor market is still hot but softening, and the economy is resilient. Plus, recent bank failures could set up the case for a pause, along with the Treasury Department's new projections adding more caution to the mix as lawmakers may have less than a month to reach a debt-ceiling deal.
“Today was always likely to mark the end of the US central bank's tightening cycle — not that it has explicitly signaled this — but we've now reached a stage in which every rate hike could have unwanted and unintended consequences,” Craig Erlam, Senior Market Analyst at OANDA, wrote in a statement.
Story continues
“With that in mind, it would be perfectly reasonable to pause today especially when we're already starting to see signs of the labor market softening and inflation easing,” Erlam added.
Meanwhile, the sale of First Republic Bank’s assets to JPMorgan (JPM) on Monday did not appear to have quelled investor fears in the banking sector.
The S&P 500 regional banking index (KRE) fell as much as 1% Wednesday morning. A handful of individual regional bank stocks that bore the brunt of sell orders Tuesday, including shares of PacWest Bancorp (PACW), are still lower by as much as 5% in premarket trading.
Separately, data releases on ISM services index and ADP’s report of private payrolls are on tap Wednesday.
Here are some of the trending tickers on Yahoo Finance:
Ford Motor Company ( F ): The carmaker’s EV unit registered a $722 million quarterly loss. The automaker is nonetheless slashing the price of its all-electric Mustang Mach-E.
CVS Health Corporation ( CVS ): The company posted a rise in sales during its first quarter as it closed its $10.6 billion deal for Oak Street Health’s 600 primary-care centers.
Starbucks Corporation ( SBUX ): The coffee giant’s posted second-quarter earnings and sales expectations and notched comparable-store sales growth in China.
Icahn Enterprises L.P. ( IEP ): Billionaire Carl Icahn got the Hindenburg Research treatment. The short-selling research firm deemed the activist investor’s fund to be inflated by 75% or more.
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (AMD): The chipmaker reported a drop in margins and provided a forecast that didn’t give much indication for improvement.
—
Dani Romero is a reporter for Yahoo Finance. Follow her on Twitter @daniromerotv
Click here for the latest stock market news and in-depth analysis, including events that move stocks
Read the latest financial and business news from Yahoo Finance
Download the Yahoo Finance app for Apple or Android
Follow Yahoo Finance on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, Flipboard, LinkedIn, and YouTube


All eyes on Wall Street were on the Federal Reserve's move.
U.S. stock futures edged upward ahead of the open on Wednesday as Wall Street prepares for the Fed’s announcement of another increase in interest rates.
Futures on the S&P 500 (^GSPC) added by 0.22%, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average (^DJI) gained 0.12%. The technology-heavy Nasdaq Composite (^IXIC) edged up 0.26%.
Federal Reserve officials kicked off a two-day policy meeting on Tuesday morning that could end with another quarter-point interest rate hike. The bigger question looming is what officials may signal about another potential tightening at their June meeting.
On Wednesday morning, government bonds were lower. The yield on the 10-year note ticked down to 3.4%, compared to the two-year note yields dipped to 3.9%. Oil prices fell — futures for West Texas Intermediate, the U.S. benchmark, dropped nearly 3% to $69.59 a barrel — below $70 for the first time since March.
Some market participants have anticipated Wednesday’s expected rate hike could be the last of the cycle. That would bring the federal funds rate target range to 5.0%-5.25%, marking the first time it topped the 5% mark since the lead-up to the global financial crisis. But Chairman Jerome Powell could confirm or steer away from those assumptions.
The Fed will announce its latest policy decision Wednesday at 2 p.m. ET. Powell is set to hold a press conference at 2:30 p.m. ET.
WASHINGTON, DC - APRIL 21: Federal Reserve Board Chairman Jerome Powell listens during an open session of a Financial Stability Oversight Council meeting at the Department of the Treasury. (Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images)
Inflation remains sticky, the labor market is still hot but softening, and the economy is resilient. Plus, recent bank failures could set up the case for a pause, along with the Treasury Department's new projections adding more caution to the mix as lawmakers may have less than a month to reach a debt-ceiling deal.
“Today was always likely to mark the end of the US central bank's tightening cycle — not that it has explicitly signaled this — but we've now reached a stage in which every rate hike could have unwanted and unintended consequences,” Craig Erlam, Senior Market Analyst at OANDA, wrote in a statement.
Story continues
“With that in mind, it would be perfectly reasonable to pause today especially when we're already starting to see signs of the labor market softening and inflation easing,” Erlam added.
Meanwhile, the sale of First Republic Bank’s assets to JPMorgan (JPM) on Monday did not appear to have quelled investor fears in the banking sector.
The S&P 500 regional banking index (KRE) fell as much as 1% Wednesday morning. A handful of individual regional bank stocks that bore the brunt of sell orders Tuesday, including shares of PacWest Bancorp (PACW), are still lower by as much as 5% in premarket trading.
Separately, data releases on ISM services index and ADP’s report of private payrolls are on tap Wednesday.
Here are some of the trending tickers on Yahoo Finance:
Ford Motor Company ( F ): The carmaker’s EV unit registered a $722 million quarterly loss. The automaker is nonetheless slashing the price of its all-electric Mustang Mach-E.
CVS Health Corporation ( CVS ): The company posted a rise in sales during its first quarter as it closed its $10.6 billion deal for Oak Street Health’s 600 primary-care centers.
Starbucks Corporation ( SBUX ): The coffee giant’s posted second-quarter earnings and sales expectations and notched comparable-store sales growth in China.
Icahn Enterprises L.P. ( IEP ): Billionaire Carl Icahn got the Hindenburg Research treatment. The short-selling research firm deemed the activist investor’s fund to be inflated by 75% or more.
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (AMD): The chipmaker reported a drop in margins and provided a forecast that didn’t give much indication for improvement.
—
Dani Romero is a reporter for Yahoo Finance. Follow her on Twitter @daniromerotv
Click here for the latest stock market news and in-depth analysis, including events that move stocks
Read the latest financial and business news from Yahoo Finance
Download the Yahoo Finance app for Apple or Android
Follow Yahoo Finance on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, Flipboard, LinkedIn, and YouTube


The wide range of potential outcomes could provoke divisions among Fed officials, even as they’re expected to raise their benchmark rate to 5.1%, the highest level in 16 years
Federal Reserve Board Chair Jerome Powell walks from the podium after speaking at a news conference at the Federal Reserve on March 22.Alex Brandon/The Associated Press
Poised to raise interest rates Wednesday for a 10th time, Federal Reserve officials are facing two competing economic trends that could make their future rate decisions more difficult and treacherous.
On the one hand, turmoil in the banking sector and political battles over the government’s borrowing limit could weaken the economy if banks restrict lending and financial markets tumble on fears of a default on the nation’s debt. Such anxieties would argue against further rate hikes, at least for now.
On the other hand, inflation, while slowing, is persisting at a level far above the central bank’s 2% target rate, raising concerns that the Fed might have to further tighten credit to slow price increases. Additional rate hikes would follow – a trend that would lead to ever-higher borrowing rates and heighten the risk of a recession.
The wide range of potential outcomes could provoke divisions among Fed officials, even as they’re expected on Wednesday to raise their benchmark rate to 5.1%, the highest level in 16 years. The big question is whether the Fed will also signal Wednesday that it’s now inclined to pause its rate increases – barring any reacceleration of inflation – and keep its key rate unchanged for the rest of 2023 as it assesses its progress in cooling inflation.
“There clearly is some division (among Fed officials), which is reasonable, given that we don’t know where we are, and we’ve got these things going in the wrong direction,” said Diane Swonk, chief economist at KMPG.
Austan Goolsbee, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, last month cited the banking turmoil and the likelihood that many banks will tighten credit for consumers and businesses as a reason to potentially forgo a rate hike this week.
“I think we need to be cautious,” Goolsbee said. “We should gather further data and be careful about raising rates too aggressively.”
Likewise, Patrick Harker, president of the Philadelphia Fed, warned against overdoing rate hikes and possibly derailing the economy.
Other regional Fed bank presidents, including James Bullard of the St. Louis Fed and Neel Kashkari of the Minneapolis Fed, have said they would prefer that the central bank remain steadfast and lift its key rate to at least 5.4%, which would require additional rate hikes after this week.
That divergence reflects the fraught path confronting the Fed. When inflation was spiking to a peak of 9.1% last June, the Fed was mostly united in its support for fast and aggressive rate increases. Now that its key rate is at a level that should restrict growth and inflation has slowed to 5% as of March, unanimity could be harder to maintain.
The Fed is meeting this week against an increasingly cloudy economic backdrop. Turmoil has re-erupted in the nation’s banking sector after regulators seized and sold off First Republic Bank over the weekend. It was the second-largest U.S. bank failure ever and the third major banking collapse in the past six weeks. Investor anxieties about whether other regional banks may suffer from problems similar to First Republic’s sent stocks sharply lower Tuesday.
Wall Street traders were also unnerved by Monday’s announcement from Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen that the nation could default on its debt as soon as June 1 unless Congress agrees to lift the debt limit before then. The debt limit caps how much the government can borrow, and Republicans in Congress are demanding steep spending cuts as the price of agreeing to lift the borrowing cap.
Both developments could weigh on an already slowing economy. The Fed wants the economy to cool somewhat, because less borrowing and spending should also help rein in inflation. But particularly if political battles around the debt ceiling worsen, the economy could fall into a deep enough recession that the Fed might be forced to cut interest rates some time this year – even if inflation isn’t fully in check.
Goldman Sachs estimates that a widespread pullback in bank lending could cut U.S. growth by 0.4 percentage point this year. That could be enough to cause a recession. In December, the Fed projected growth of just 0.5% in 2023.
The Fed’s likely rate hike Wednesday comes as other major central banks are also tightening credit. European Central Bank President Christine Lagarde is expected to announce another interest rate increase Thursday, after inflation figures released Tuesday showed that price increases ticked up last month.
Consumer prices rose 7% in the 20 countries that use the euro currency in April from a year earlier, up from a 6.9% year-over-year increase in March.
In the United States, although overall inflation has tumbled as the cost of gas and many goods has eased, “core” inflation – which excludes volatile food and energy costs – has remained chronically high. According to the Fed’s preferred measure, core prices rose 4.6% in March from a year earlier, the same as in December.


Chair Jerome Powell and other committee members of the Federal Reserve are likely to announce a decision on rate hike on Wednesday, May 3.While the market
Chair Jerome Powell and other committee members of the Federal Reserve are likely to announce a decision on rate hike on Wednesday, May 3.
While the market has factored in a 25 basis points hike by the US Fed, a few analysts believe otherwise.
Amid a situation of economic slowdown and failure in the banking crisis, crude oil prices have come down significantly in the last one year.
Advertisement
Advertisement
US dollar index
Advertisement
Advertisement
The prices of gold and crude oil are usually triggered by events like the US Federal Reserve’s decision on interest rates as they provide commentary on the economic situation, which impacts demand.Both precious metals and crude reacted sharply during trade on May 3. Chair Jerome Powell and other committee members are expected to announce a decision on rate hike later today. While the market has factored in a 25 basis point hike by the US Fed, some analysts believe otherwise.Apurva Sheth, head of markets perspective & research at Samco Securities feels the US Fed may surprise with a pause in rate hike.“The market is discounting a 25 bps hike by the US Fed tonight. However, we believe there are high chances that the Fed may throw in a surprise with a pause in their policy meet. This may be simply because the gap between their interest rates and inflation has narrowed down to zero. Along with this, the banking crisis has deepened with First Republic Bank failure. The Fed wouldn't want to risk financial stability just when inflation is already headed lower,” said Sheth.Amid economic slowdown and banking crisis in the US, crude oil prices have come down significantly in the last one year. Brent crude price dropped 30% in the last one year and is down 1% on May 3 to $74 per barrel on weak demand prospects ahead of the FOMC decision later today.Besides, crude oil prices fell about 4% since the last Fed outcome on March 22.“The weakness in crude prices intensifies, after ending the week lower, prices continue to slump. Both benchmarks fell more than 5% to a five-week low on Tuesday, as US policymakers discussed methods to avert a debt default and investors braced for more rate hikes this week, which might dampen energy consumption,” said Prathamesh Mallya, AVP- research, non-agri commodities, and currencies at Angel One.Besides, weak economic data in China, one of the biggest consumers of oil, has also impacted the oil prices. China's manufacturing activity unexpectedly fell in April, which is the first contraction since December.“Energy prices are also under pressure after data from China released over the weekend indicated that factory activity in April declined sharply. China is the world's largest energy consumer and crude oil buyer,” said Mallya.Meanwhile, the, which tracks the greenback against the basket of currencies, slipped by 0.36% on May 3 ahead of the FOMC outcome, to 101.59. While the market is expecting a 25 basis points hike, key focus also remains on the monetary policy commentary going forward on rate hike decision.Gold gets dearer as investors flock to safe haven assets amid fears of a recessionThe uncertain macro environment triggered by the war between Russia and Ukraine, high inflation across the globe, rising interest rates and now the banking crisis in the US and Europe – all make a case for buying gold.On May 3, the price of 10 grams of gold rose to ₹61,640 in Mumbai from ₹60,760 on May 2.Gold prices have been rallying this year amid the economic slowdown fears, as the yellow metal is considered as a hedge against inflation and a safe haven compared to assets like equities, bonds and currencies.A mild recession and weaker earnings have historically been gold-positive. A further weakening of the dollar as inflation recedes could provide support for gold.“Gold was on course for its biggest daily gain in a month, as yields fell on fresh fears of contagion in the US banking sector ahead of the Federal Reserve's widely anticipated interest rate hike. While gold is regarded as a hedge against economic uncertainty, rising interest rates reduce demand for the zero-yielding asset,” said Mallya.Price of silver has rallied in the last few months, as industrial demand also saw a pick up. Besides, a recent fall in the US dollar and rising prices of gold may also attract some buying opportunities in silver. On May 3, the price of 1 kg silver rose to ₹76,800 from ₹76,100 on May 2.


The US Fed-led Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) is expected to deliver a final 25 basis point rate hike on Wednesday, taking the total quantum of rate
The US Fed-led Federal Open Market Committee ( FOMC ) is expected to deliver a final 25 basis point rate hike on Wednesday, taking the total quantum of rate hikes to 500 bps since March last year.
) is expected to deliver a final 25 basis point rate hike on Wednesday, taking the total quantum of rate hikes to 500 bps since March last year. Economists state that after this hike, the FOMC might take a pause and ease up on its monetary policies keeping in mind the banking sector crisis.
This could trigger a stock market rally , according to JP Morgan which scooped up First Republic Bank’s assets on Monday this week.
Advertisement
stock market
US Fed
Advertisement
FOMC caught between a rock and a hard place
Advertisement
Rate cuts could start this year
Advertisement
rally is on the horizon as the’s Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) is expected to take a pause after a final 25 basis point rate hike on Wednesday. While equity markets have been jittery this week due to the US banking sector crisis, a pause in rate hikes is not baked into equity markets, according to the analysts at JP Morgan.It will be the tenth rate hike by the FOMC since March 2022, taking the interest rate to 5.25%.Elevated inflation has made the FOMC’s job difficult amidst growing calls by US lawmakers to pause rate hikes, including the likes of Elizabeth Warren and Pramila Jayapaul, who called on the US Fed to “avoid engineering a recession that destroys jobs and crushes small businesses”.Despite this, the broader consensus is that the FOMC may still deliver a 25 bps rate hike before taking a pause.“Even as regional banking sector stress remains in place that is visible in the credit markets, we expect the FOMC to move forward and deliver its final rate hike of 25 bps in the current cycle,” said a report by ICICI Bank.This will take the interest rate to 5.25%, and the total quantum of hikes to 500 basis points since March last year.“We expect the forward guidance to change to indicate that the central bank is moving to a prolonged pause as it waits to assess the lagged effect of monetary tightening,” the ICICI Bank report added.Recent macroeconomic developments in the US have made the FOMC’s job difficult as far as the monetary policy direction is concerned. While retail inflation in the US fell for the ninth consecutive month to 5% in March, it is still above the Fed’s target of 2%.Multinational bank ING said in a note that “inflation remains unacceptably high, but banking stresses are leading to a tightening of lending conditions.”Wage inflation, too, has remained robust, which is feeding demand-side inflation – the average hourly earnings increased from 4.4% in January to 4.6% in February. Core inflation, on the other hand, remained elevated at 5.54% in February.On the other hand, the US' gross domestic product (GDP) grew at just 1.1% in the March quarter, as against expectations of 2% growth.Data from the US Fed also underlined the elevated stress amongst regional banks, with emergency borrowings rising for the second consecutive week at the end of April by $11.3 billion.The analysts at ING added that while a 25 bps hike is a given, the rationale for further rate hikes is “highly questionable” given the stress in the US banking sector. Earlier this week on Monday, First Republic Bank collapsed, making it the second-largest failure in US banking history. The lender reported that its customers withdrew $100 billion in deposits in the March quarter, effectively sealing its fate. ING expects rate cuts to begin as soon as November this year.Analysts at Nomura also note that a 25 bps hike is likely on Wednesday, but going forward, the monetary policy tightening could come to an end.“There appears to have been uptake in emergency borrowings at the San Francisco Fed region, even after adjusting for the impact of quantitative tightening, which might be related to continued news of stress at the First Republic Bank,” the brokerage said, adding that it expects rate cuts to start in March 2024.All in all, the consensus is that the FOMC is highly likely to deliver one last 25 bps rate hike today while keeping a close watch on inflation. Rate cuts could begin later this year, but until then, economists expect gradual easing up of monetary policies.


Federal Reserve officials are expected to raise interest rates by a quarter point at the conclusion of their two-day policy meeting Wednesday, despite calls from some lawmakers and economists to tap the brakes to allow the ailing banking sector to rebalance.
Washington, DC CNN —
Federal Reserve officials are expected to raise interest rates by a quarter point at the conclusion of their two-day policy meeting Wednesday, despite calls from some lawmakers and economists to tap the brakes to allow the ailing banking sector to rebalance.
Taming inflation remains the Fed’s top priority, but even some central bank officials have expressed greater caution in determining additional hikes after the failure of three US regional banks in two months, including the collapse of First Republic Bank on Monday.
“At moments like this, of financial stress, the right monetary approach calls for prudence and patience — for assessing the potential impact of financial stress on the real economy,” Austan Goolsbee, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, said in a forum last month. Goolsbee is the newest voting member of the Fed group that decides interest rates.
Another quarter-point increase would bring the benchmark federal funds rate to its highest level in more than 15 years. It would also be the tenth increase in a row since the Fed began to lift rates in March last year.
At the Fed’s last meeting, officials voted unanimously to raise interest rates by a quarter point, citing data that pointed to persistently high inflation and stronger-than-expected economic activity in the beginning of the year. But more cautious voting members could dissent this time, partly due to fear of a tightening of credit conditions, said Diane Swonk, chief economist at KPMG.
“Inflation is looking sticky, which is what the Fed was trying to hedge against, and that will reinforce their resolve to raise rates in May and make it harder for them to definitely commit to an end to rate hikes,” said Swonk.
Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell’s press conference at 2:30 p.m, and the post-meeting statement, will offer clues on whether additional rate increases are likely in the months ahead, and how credit conditions have shaped up in the seven weeks since the first bank failure.
A coming credit crunch?
Some evidence has already emerged that banks have toughened their lending standards since March, but the full extent remains to be seen. Swift action from regulators quelled fears of broader financial contagion, and the Fed’s assessment of March’s banking turbulence showed that banks failed because of mismanagement and insufficient enforcement action from regulators.
“The credit crunch is the equivalent of raising interest rates,” said David Wessel, director of the Hutchins Center on Fiscal and Monetary Policy at the Brookings Institution. “So if you’re at the Fed and you’re trying to slow the economy, you don’t want the financial system to crash, but it’s OK with you if banks lend a little less, and then you raise interest rates a little less, and that’s why they’ll probably stop after one or two more rate hikes.”
Tighter credit conditions help the Fed curb demand to bring down inflation. Strong demand, coupled with a still-tight labor market, puts pressure on employers to raise wages and hire enough employees to meet demand. Those costs are then passed on to consumers. Fed officials have characterized the labor market as a major source of inflationary pressure.
Data gauging US economic activity has been mixed so far. US gross domestic product rose by an annualized rate of 1.1% in the first quarter from the prior three-month period, a weaker rate than the previous two quarters, but surveys released by S&P Global showed that business activity picked up in April.
“The latest survey adds to signs that business activity has regained growth momentum after contracting over the seven months to January,” Chris Williamson, chief business economist at S&P Global Market Intelligence, said in a release. “However, the upturn in demand has also been accompanied by a rekindling of price pressures.”
And the Employment Cost Index, a comprehensive measure of labor costs, showed that compensation gains picked up in the first quarter, indicating that some underlying forces pushing up consumer prices remain.
A slowing but still-robust labor market
The broader labor market has started to show clear signs of slowing: Employers added 236,000 jobs in March, the smallest gain in more than two years, and job openings fell to 9.59 million that same month, their lowest level since May 2021, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The ratio of openings to the number of unemployed people seeking work declined to 1.65.
Overall price increases have cooled. The Personal Consumption Expenditures price index, the Fed’s preferred inflation gauge, rose 4.2% in March from a year earlier, down from a 5.1% rise in February. And the Consumer Price Index rose 5% in March from the same month a year ago, down from 6% in February.
Core inflation, which strips out volatile food and energy prices, hasn’t decelerated as fast, largely because of the labor market, which is the main argument against a pause in rate increases. But other measures of inflation are poised to decelerate later in the year.
“Nominal wage growth is a key factor into core services inflation, which is pretty sticky. So when wages are rising, people are going to go out and spend more on services,” said Ryan Sweet, chief US economist at Oxford Economics.
“But the good news is that leading indicators of rental inflation, which is a big component of the CPI, point toward a noticeable deceleration in the second half of the year,” he said.


U.S. stock indexes opened higher on Wednesday after a selloff in the previous session, with investors awaiting more economic data ahead of the outcome of a Federal Reserve policy meeting later in the day.
[1/2] A Wall Street sign is pictured outside the New York Stock Exchange in New York, October 28, 2013. REUTERS/Carlo Allegri/File Photo
May 3 (Reuters) - U.S. stock indexes opened higher on Wednesday after a selloff in the previous session, with investors awaiting more economic data ahead of the outcome of a Federal Reserve policy meeting later in the day.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average (.DJI) rose 42.11 points, or 0.13%, at the open to 33,726.64. The S&P 500 (.SPX) opened higher by 2.67 points, or 0.06%, at 4,122.25, while the Nasdaq Composite (.IXIC) gained 16.53 points, or 0.14%, to 12,097.04 at the opening bell.
Reporting by Ankika Biswas in Bengaluru; Editing by Shounak Dasgupta
Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.


U.S. private employers boosted hiring in April amid strong demand for workers in the leisure and hospitality industry, but a slowdown in wage growth offered some good news for the Federal Reserve's fight against inflation.
Summary
Summary Companies Private payrolls increase by 296,000 in April
Prior month's gain revised lower to 142,000
WASHINGTON, May 3 (Reuters) - U.S. private employers boosted hiring in April amid strong demand for workers in the leisure and hospitality industry, but a slowdown in wage growth offered some good news for the Federal Reserve's fight against inflation.
Private payrolls increased by 296,000 jobs last month, the ADP National Employment Report showed on Wednesday. Data for March was revised lower to show 142,000 jobs added instead of the previously reported 145,000. Economists polled by Reuters had forecast private employment would increase 148,000.
The goods producing industry added 67,000 jobs, mostly in natural resources, mining and construction. Manufacturing shed 38,000 positions.
Payrolls in the service-providing sector increased by 229,000 jobs, driven by a rise of 154,000 in the leisure and hospitality industry. Education and health services added 69,000 positions. But financial activities lost 28,000 jobs, while professional and business services payrolls fell 16,000.
"We expect payrolls to remain positive for now," said Rubeela Farooqi, chief U.S. economist at High Frequency Economics in White Plains, New York. "But the pace should moderate as the lagged and cumulative effects of monetary policy spread more broadly through the economy." Wage growth moderated, with the median annual change for job changers dropping to 13.2%, the slowest pace since November 2021, from 14.2% in March.
The Fed is expected to raise its benchmark overnight interest rate by another 25 basis points to the 5.00%-5.25% range at the end of a two-day policy meeting on Wednesday before potentially pausing the U.S. central bank's fastest monetary policy tightening campaign since the 1980s.
Higher interest rates are cooling demand for workers and hiring could be eroded by a tightening in bank lending following recent financial market turmoil. A standoff to raise the federal government's $31.4 trillion borrowing cap also poses a grave risk to the economy and ultimately the labor market.
Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen warned on Monday that the government could run out of money within a month.
TIGHT LABOR MARKET
The government reported on Tuesday that there were 9.6 million job openings at the end of March, the lowest since May 2021. Nevertheless, the labor market remains tight, with 1.6 job openings for every unemployed worker in March, well above the 1.0-1.2 range that economists say is consistent with a jobs market that is not generating too much inflation.
The ADP report, jointly developed with the Stanford Digital Economy Lab, was published ahead of the Labor Department's Bureau of Labor Statistics' more comprehensive and closely watched employment report for April on Friday.
It has not been a reliable gauge in forecasting private payrolls in the BLS employment report.
According to a Reuters survey of economists, private payrolls likely increased by 160,000 jobs last month.
With gains anticipated in government employment, total nonfarm payrolls are forecast to have risen by 179,000 jobs last month after a gain of 236,000 in March.
"Given the ADP's poor record as a predictor of nonfarm payrolls, we still think that, based on the upward trend in initial jobless claims and the downward trend in job openings, the latter increased by a more modest 180,000 last month," said Paul Ashworth, chief North America economist at Capital Economics in Toronto.
Reporting by Lucia Mutikani; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama
Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.


Stock index futures pointed to a higher open Wednesday but trading will likely be muted until the Federal Reserve rate decision this afternoon.
Stock index futures pointed to a higher open Wednesday but trading will likely be muted until the Federal Reserve rate decision this afternoon.
S&P futures (SPX) +0.2%, Dow futures (INDU) +0.1% and Nasdaq 100 futures (NDX:IND) +0.2% were up.
The market expects the Fed to raise rates by 25 basis points, which could be the last hike of this tightening cycle.
"Strains in the banking sector continue to cause headaches at the Fed, while the Treasury worries about the debt limit," SocGen's Kit Juckes wrote. "A 25bp hike and a heavy hint (at least) that we will then see a pause, is the consensus view of today’s Fed meeting. Surprises could include an emphasis on the possibility they will do more (but would the market believe them) or a decision to stay on hold. Either way, the economy is clearly losing momentum now."
"Tactically, a dovish hike may be taken as an all clear to buying risk and a hawkish hike could jolt market pricing of no hikes beyond June," Steve Englander, strategist at Standard Chartered said. "We don’t see why the Fed would want either outcome and communicating something in the middle will be a challenge. By contrast waiting until June will provide more clarity on banks and the debt ceiling as well as provide two more NFP and CPI reads – that seems prudent given the uncertainty in markets."
"Strategically if the Fed doesn’t want markets to price in cuts, it should send a message that a pause could be followed by hikes as well as cuts if that is what the data say – as it stands the market only sees one way risk once there is a pause."
If the last couple of meetings are any guide, stocks are in for whiplash trading starting with the FOMC statement at 2 p.m. ET and lasting through Fed Chairman Jay Powell's press conference.
"Inflation has been extremely unusual," UBS chief economist Paul Donovan said. "The first wave of transitory, demand-led inflation is now in deflation. The second wave of energy, supply-led inflation is now in disinflation (oil prices fell further yesterday). The third wave of profit-led inflation continues at the end of supply chains."
"Former Fed Chairs Greenspan, Bernanke, or Yellen would have offered innovative solutions. Powell seems to lack the confidence to go beyond a conventional, economics 101 response."
Rates are lower, except on the debt-ceiling-driver short end of the Treasury curve. The 1-month (US1M) yield was up 14 basis points to 4.53%. The 3-month (US3M) was up 17 basis points to 5.22%.
The 10-year yield (US10Y) fell 4 basis points to 3.40% and the 2-year yield (US2Y) fell 3 basis points to 3.95%.
"Whilst yields moved lower across most of the curve (on Tuesday), there were some seismic movements at the very front-end, with yields on near-term T-bills spiking after Treasury Secretary Yellen warned that the government could hit the debt ceiling as early as June 1," Deutsche Bank's Jim Reid wrote. "For instance, one bill that matures on June 8 spiked up by +85bps at one point before finishing up +45bps on the day, ending the day at 5.230%. For now at least, there hasn’t been much signs of progress on the political side either, which is further concerning investors."
"The debt ceiling farce continues," Donovan said. "In the near term, the main cost of this is that it consumes the scarcest commodity in Washington - time."
The Fed will get a final batch of economic data before decision time. Before the bell ADP's measure of April private payrolls comes out. Economists predict a gain of 148K jobs, similar to March, although the Fed will likely be more focused on Tuesday's dovish JOLTS (see chart at bottom).
After the start of trading, the April ISM services index hits. The forecast is for a small rise to 51.8.
The April S&P Global composite PMI is also on the docket, with economists looking for a rise to 53.5. The services PMI has a consensus for a rise to 53.7.
Stock market latest


European stocks and U.S. stock futures rose on Wednesday with hopes hinging on the Federal Reserve signalling later in the day that U.S. interest rate hikes might peak soon and the soft landing that central banks have been angling for is in sight. The pan-European STOXX 600 index was up almost 0.5% after Tuesday's sharp selloff.
European stocks and U.S. stock futures rose on Wednesday with hopes hinging on the Federal Reserve signalling later in the day that U.S. interest rate hikes might peak soon and the soft landing that central banks have been angling for is in sight.
The pan-European STOXX 600 index was up almost 0.5% after Tuesday's sharp selloff. S&P 500 futures edged up 0.1% but the mood was cautious, with banks in the crosshairs. On Tuesday, U.S. regional banks were hammered, with PacWest Bancorp down 27.8%, Western Alliance Bancorp , tumbling 15.1% and Comerica Inc falling 12.4%.
The slide in regional bank stocks weighed on Wall Street, and oil was also left nursing large losses with fears that banks tightening up on lending along with a slowing job market were harbingers of a looming broader slowdown. Markets are all but certain the Federal Reserve will announce a 25 basis point rate hike at 1800 GMT. If that happens, the focus will be on whether or how hard Fed Chair Jerome Powell pushes back on investors' expectations for rate cuts by year's end.
"The hike will be a contemplative one that acknowledges heightened two-way risks and a narrower path to a soft-landing," said Vishnu Varathan, head of economics at Mizuho Bank in Singapore. In Europe, where the crisis of confidence in banks forced Credit Suisse into the arms of larger rival UBS six weeks ago, lenders are sharply turning off the credit taps, data on Tuesday showed, perhaps making a case for a smaller European Central Bank rate hike this week.
"This reinforces the idea of 25bps from the ECB this week rather than 50bps," said NatWest Markets' rates strategist Jan Nevruzi. "The market consensus is for a soft landing and every hint in that direction, if you trust the Fed and the ECB, should be a source of good news for equities and credit," said Florian Ielpo, head of macro at Lombard Odier Investment Managers.
Markets face a "macro heavy week" said Ielpo, with investors looking back at a strong first quarter earnings season but anticipating that Friday's U.S. jobs report might reveal a deteriorating macro economic situation. Markets in China and Japan were shut for a holiday. Hong Kong's shares fell, dragging MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares, ex-Japan, down about 0.7%.
Bonds and gold held gains. The dollar, slipping, was caught in the crosswinds of falling yields and rising nerves. EYES ON THE FED
Currency markets were steady and awaiting direction from the Fed. The euro was last up 0.4% at $1.1042, ahead of Thursday's ECB meeting. Elsewhere, the Australian dollar lay flat after the previous day's 0.5% gain following a surprise rate increase from the Reserve Bank of Australia.
Brent crude, which dropped 5% overnight, fell further and was last down about 2% to $73.83 a barrel. Gold hovered above $2,016 an ounce, little changed on the day.
Two-year U.S. treasury yields fell 5 bps to around 3.94% and 10-year yields fell 4 bps to around 3.39% . Investors have a wary eye on the looming U.S. debt ceiling, with lawmakers squabbling and Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen warning the government might run out of money as soon as June 1.
Yields on Treasury bills maturing around then have spiked . "Either this game is over within a few weeks or we are going to see a suspension of the debt limit until later this year," said Rabobank strategist Philip Marey. "In both cases, we are not likely to see any solution until financial markets start to panic."
(This story has not been edited by Devdiscourse staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)


Where the intrigue comes in is how the central bank proceeds from here.
Federal Reserve Board Chair Jerome Powell speaks during a news conference at the Federal Reserve in Washington, DC, on March 22, 2023. Olivier Douliery | AFP | Getty Images
There won't be a lot of mystery surrounding what the Federal Reserve is going to do Wednesday with interest rates. Where the intrigue comes in is how the central bank proceeds from here. Markets have priced in a near-100% probability that the rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee will approve a quarter percentage point increase at the conclusion of the two-day meeting. That will mark the 10th increase since March 2022, taking the Fed's benchmark borrowing rate to a target range of 5%-5.25%. related investing news Trading 'Fed Day': What JPMorgan sees happening based on these scenarios BlackRock’s Rieder highlights a fresh worry for investors beyond the Fed’s expected rate hike For investors, the hard part will be what happens next: Does the Fed signal that it's done hiking, or will it leave open the option of tightening even more if it judges that more needs to be done to fight inflation? "What's most important is how they convey the potential for a pause going forward," said Collin Martin, fixed income strategist at Charles Schwab. "How do they do that while also probably leaving the door open a little bit? That will be a balancing act between suggesting a pause is in the cards but still is dependent on incoming data should inflation turn higher going forward." Multiple factors will come into play as Fed Chairman Jerome Powell and his colleagues point to where monetary policy is heading. Inflation has been at the forefront of official thinking. Recent indicators point to a softening but only to a level that is still well above the Fed's 2% target. For instance, the Dallas Fed compiles a gauge called the "trimmed mean" for personal consumption expenditures that essentially throws out high and low readings. That is showing annual inflation around 4.7% in March, little changed since August 2022 and up from a 3.9% pace in March 2022. The consumer price index was at 5% in March, compared to 8.5% a year ago.
None of those figures are satisfactory for Fed officials. Regardless of the measure, inflation "is still much too high and so my job is not done," Fed Governor Christopher Waller said in an April 14 speech. "I interpret these data as indicating that we haven't made much progress on our inflation goal, which leaves me at about the same place on the economic outlook that I was at the last FOMC meeting, and on the same path for monetary policy."
Weighing the bank troubles
But the Fed has another consideration that has taken much of the market's attention, namely the nettlesome problems in the financial world that claimed another bank earlier this week when JPMorgan Chase absorbed First Republic, which had been the nation's 14th-largest bank in assets. Then there's the economy. A looming recession appears to be getting closer, with gross domestic product growing at just a 1.1% annualized pace in the first quarter and signs of cracks appearing in the labor market. All those crosscurrents will lead the Fed to signal a policy pivot this week, according to Goldman Sachs. The firm's economists expect the FOMC to tweak language in the post-meeting statement indicating a change ahead. "The focus will be on revisions to the forward guidance in its statement," Goldman economist David Mericle said in a client note. "We expect the Committee to signal that it anticipates pausing in June but retains a hawkish bias, stopping earlier than it initially envisioned because bank stress is likely to cause a tightening of credit."
watch now
A "hawkish bias" means that Fed policymakers will stress that interest rates need to remain restrictive even though there may not be any additional increases on the way. The aim would be to maintain the central bank's inflation-fighting credentials while also acknowledging the other stresses and the ability now to simply let the previous increases run their course through the economy. In the portion of the statement where the Fed provides guidance, Mericle expects to see a sentence that could look something like, "The Committee anticipates that the stance of monetary policy will most likely be sufficiently restrictive to return inflation to 2 percent over time but will closely monitor incoming information and assess the implications for monetary policy."
Sticky inflation
To be sure, while the market is anticipating a "dovish" Fed, inclined to halt rate hikes and start cutting later this year, stubbornly high prices could change that. Inflation has proven to be more persistent than officials anticipated, borne out through the Atlanta Fed's "sticky price" CPI that compares prices for goods and services that don't don't change a lot over time against those that do. Sticky prices increased 6.6% annually in March and have been generally on the rise, while "flexible price CPI" increased just 1.6% and has declined precipitously since peaking at 19.7% in March 2022. Sticky prices include housing.
Those kinds of numbers at the very least will keep the Fed on high alert against letting its guard down too soon. "Most Fed officials don't seem comfortable that the rate hike cycle is over," Citigroup economist Andrew Hollenhorst said in a note. The next Fed policy meeting comes in six weeks, on June 13-14, and April's consumer price report is due in one week, on May 10. "The center of the committee acknowledges the unknown macroeconomic effect of credit tightening, keeping the potential need for further rate hikes on the table," Hollenhurt added. "And recent data have not been comforting regarding bringing inflation under control." In fact, Citi sees not only an increase at this week's meeting but also additional hikes in June and July before the Fed finally pulls back. "The statement and Chair Powell's press conference should mainly be about reasserting that the policy path [will] be data dependent, rather than guiding to any preordained policy path," Hollenhorst wrote. Along with the delicate balance of how to telegraph the rate hike, could come some variety in opinion among Fed officials who generally move in unison. Remarks since the beginning of March have reflected divergent views between those who are expecting a policy change against those who still see inflation as the top priority. "Is this going to be the one-and-done Fed meeting?" said Quincy Krosby, chief global strategist at LPL Financial. "There's dissension within the Fed. It's public. You can only imagine what the internal debate is like. ... This Fed meeting is crucial."


Federal Reserve officials will release a rate decision at 2 p.m. The key question is what will come next.
Federal Reserve officials are set to release an interest rate decision on Wednesday afternoon, and while investors widely expect policymakers to lift borrowing costs by a quarter-point, they will be watching carefully for any hint at what might come next.
This would be the central bank’s 10th consecutive interest rate increase — capping the fastest series of rate increases in four decades. But it could also be the central bank’s last one, for now.
Fed officials signaled in their last set of economic projections that they might stop raising interest rates once they reached a range of 5 percent to 5.25 percent, the level they are expected to hit on Wednesday. Officials will not release fresh economic projections after this meeting, which will leave economists carefully parsing both the central bank’s 2 p.m. policy decision statement and a 2:30 p.m. news conference with Jerome H. Powell, the Fed chair, for hints at what comes next.
Central bankers will be balancing conflicting signals. They have already done a lot to slow growth and wrestle rapid inflation under control, recent tumult in the banking industry could curb demand even more, and a looming fight over the debt ceiling poses a fresh source of risk to the economy. All of those are reasons for caution. But the economy has been fairly resilient and inflation is showing staying power, which could make some Fed officials feel that they still have work to do.


